# Loading Tips and Gameplay Hints

Loading Tips are tidbits containing useful information that are displayed in Phantasy Star Online 2: New Genesis during loading screens and when the player is incapacitated.
Outside of loading screens, Loading Tips can also be seen from the Main Menu > System > Help > Useful Info.

== Field ==
Loading Tip
Advancing the story will grant you access to locked menu and shop functions.
Pressing [X] to sidestep while running will start Photon Dash, a high-speed movement.
After jumping with [Space], press and hold [Space] to soar through the air with Photon Glide.
If you take damage during combat, you can recover your HP using Restasigne from the Sub-Palette.
You can purchase Restasigne and Reversasigne from shops like those found in the City.
You can display the World Map by pressing and holding [ESC]. *Unavailable on some platforms.
Use the directional buttons + [Shift] to scroll quickly through the item menu items list, etc.
Hunters boast high HP and Defense, and can hold their own when operating solo.
Rangers use ranged weapons to engage enemies while maintaining the optimal distance.
Forces use Techniques to assault the enemy from a distance.
What Fighters lack in Defense is made up for by their devastating, pulverizing attacks.
Gunners make light work of enemies with their great mobility and a relentless torrent of bullets.
Techters support other players through Techniques.
Bravers can seamlessly switch between close and long range weapons.
Bouncers' Physical and Elemental Downs will give you the edge in battle.
You can always check [Help] under [System] in the Main Menu.
Alpha Reactors are items designed to be converted to cash. They can be sold at a high price.
N-Mission Badges can be used at an Item Trader's Item Exchange Shop.
Tons of enemies appear during PSE Bursts! Get as much loot, EXP, and N-Meseta as you can!
Use Gold Primm Swords as enhancement materials to help you save on N-Grinders.
Blur and Bloom effects can be adjusted in Graphics Settings under Options.

== Beauty Salon ==
Loading Tip
Provided you don't exceed the cost limits, you can equip up to 12 accessories.
You can choose where on the body to place accessories and then finely tune their exact position.
You can easily check your character's physique with [Wear/Remove Outfit].
You can freely combine Basewear, Innerwear, and Outerwear to create your own Layered Wear.
You can use Voice Edit to give your character a low or high-pitched voice.

== Battledia ==
Loading Tip
Reward items and EXP earned in a Battledia are released to you once you clear it.
Battle Triggers are consumed upon quest clearance for the initiator only.
Battle Trigger initiators receive a boost to EXP earned and rare drop rate at the start of the quest.
Reward items and EXP earned in a Battledia are released to you once you clear it.
Rewards for Battledia: Purple vary based on the number of Gigantix you defeat within the time limit.

== Incapacitated ==

=== General ===
Loading Tip
It is best to replenish your Restasigne in the Field before it runs too low.
The edges of the screen will turn red when your HP is low to show that you're in a dangerous position.

=== DOLLS ===
Loading Tip
Nogleths have a big opening while attacking with their arms.
Nogleths will charge at airborne ARKS defenders with a powerful rushing attack.
When you find it hard to hit an Oruq's body, aim for their drooping tail.
Destroying the armor on an Oruq's head will expose their core, which is their weak point.
A Bujin's weapon will flash black before they attack.
Counters are one way to deal will the fierce attacks of a Bujin.
Keep track of a Varas's flying arms to avoid getting caught out by attacks from blind spots.
When a Varas's arms are flying, it's a prime chance to aim for their exposed and vulnerable core.
As Nex Aelio takes more damage, its body will begin to burn, and its core will be exposed from its sides.
When you see Nex Aelio inhale deeply, it is just about to use its devastating fireball attack.
After Nex Vera charges up its power it will follow up with a powerful attack.
You can stop Nex Vera's deadly breath attack by downing it.
A Daityl Sword can still hit with a beam attack from its head when you are behind it.
Daityl Swords have a big opening while attacking with their legs.
Watch the wide swings of a Daityl Axe's attacks carefully and be ready to counter.
A Daityl Axe can be downed with Ice attacks.
When a Pettas Vera comes swinging at you with their punch attacks, focus on dodging until they stop.
When a Pettas Vera is in the air using its laser attack, destroy the shining crystal to expose its weak point.
Destroying the gun barrel while red Destragras's arms are transformed will reduce its rate of fire.
When Destragras glows and flies into the air, it's preparing to fire a hail of bullets over a wide area.
After a Sand Nogleth bashes the ground, it will follow up with an additional sand-based attack.
When a Sand Nogleth turns red and its arms transform, you can destroy its arms to reduce the rate of attacks.
Be aware that when a Lizentos turns red and transforms, its attack range becomes much broader.
Destroying both of a Lizentos's legs will make it topple over when it attempts to attack.
The projectiles fired by a Fortos Launcher will home in on ARKS defenders.
When a Fortos Launcher glows, attacks from above will follow shortly.
Fortos Lasers mostly unleash linear attacks.
When a Fortos Laser glows, it will shoot lasers in every direction from the air.
Kelkundos will quickly close in for an attack once they get some distance.
After a Kelkundo unleashes a furious string of attacks, it will be very vulnerable for a while.
When Renus Retem glows brightly, it can't be damaged. Attack its tail to undo this effect.
When Renus Retem turns red, you can destroy the weapons on its torso.
When Renus Vera glows brightly, it can't be damaged. Attack its tail to undo this effect.
When Renus Vera turns red, you can destroy the weapons on its torso.
Dustyl Hammers attack the area around them with sonic waves.
Dustyl Hammers can use rocks dislodged by their melee or sonic attacks as weapons.
When Dustyl Vera focuses on the concert, it can't be damaged. Attack the musical instrument to undo this effect.
Be careful not to find yourself inflicted with the Shock status ailment caused by Dustyl Vera's sonic wave attacks.

=== ALTERS ===
Loading Tip
A Chiacurio will enhance other nearby enemies.
The blazing trails left by a Chiacurio's attacks will burn for a while, inflicting damage if you touch them.
Waulons will use a powerful spin attack once they get some distance.
A Waulon will unleash a powerful laser attack after turning its face away.
To avoid the Bigg Frogga's leaping attack, dodge to the left or right as its tail touches the ground.
Be careful not to find yourself inflicted with the Poison status ailment by the Bigg Frogga's Poison attacks.
Lock on to an Eldi Scythe to keep better track of their agile movements.
You can weaken an Eldi Scythe by destroying the sickles on both of its arms.
When you Down a Bubble Snapper by hitting its arms with its Elemental Weakness, it will stop shooting bubbles from its claws.
Bubble Snappers use the bubbles they emit from their claws for powerful attacks.
A Svacurio will buff other nearby enemies.
The blazing trails left by a Svacurio's attacks will burn for a while, inflicting damage if you touch them.
Svaulons will use a powerful spin attack once they get some distance.
A Svaulon will unleash a powerful laser attack after turning its face away.
Lock on to a Svadi Scythe to keep better track of their agile movements.
You can weaken a Svadi Scythe by destroying the sickles on both of its arms.

=== FORMERS ===
Loading Tip
You can shake yourself free of a Crag Bear's grip by repeatedly inputting directional commands.
A Crag Bear will release a long range shock wave after raising its arms up high.
Ard Bansers will let out a roar after widening their front legs and planting their feet firmly.
Once all of an Ard Banser's claws are destroyed, it will fall over after using its rush attack.
Ard Banshees will try to tag you with a scratching attack from its hind legs when you're behind them.
An Ard Banshee can be downed with Fire attacks.
When a Thunder Banser inhales deeply, it's about to use its devastating breath attack.
A Thunder Banser can be downed with Fire attacks.
A Thunder Banshee can dodge backwards out of its scratch attack and follow up with another attack.
Be careful not to find yourself inflicted with the Shock status ailment by the Thunder Banshee's Lightning attacks.
You can shake yourself free of a Dune Bear's grip by repeatedly inputting directional commands.
A Dune Bear will release a shock wave to the surrounding area after raising its arms up high.
