
=== [Bouncer Class Skills & Data] ===
=== REFRESH NODE: 2026-06-12 04:20:37 UTC ===
Bouncer HTML ConvertTime 0.446 sec. Class (Add-on Skill) Hunter (Hu) Fighter (Fi) Ranger (Ra) Gunner (Gu) Force (Fo) Tector (Te) Braver (Br) Bouncer (Bo) Waker (Wa) Slayer (Sl) EX Style Adrus Blitz Celeste ▼ Open Table of Contents Table of Contents Overview Class Skill List Defeat PP Gain Defeat Amplify Partial Destroy Advantage Physical Decline Elemental Decline Decline Amplify Decline Gel Effect Special Ability Optimize Bo Foie Brand Vertablot Sondeclad Zangale Grants Glitter Megidosphere Fanatic Blade Fanatic Blade Augment Photon Blade PP Recovery Blade Counter Alternation Blade Arts Parry Blade Arts Parry Counter Edge Pinion Blade Blade Arts Alternation Jet Attack Extra Jet Intensity Boots Trick Bounce Counter Thrust Drive Thrust Drive Skip Attack Boot Arts Skip Beat Jet Boots Element Set Sturmsieker Sturmsieker Rapid Boost Sturmsieker PP Save Sturmsieker Short Recast Class skills to be implemented in the future Bouncer's subclass Bouncer's EX style Bouncer as a subclass Comments Overview Implemented on October 13, 2021 Official abbreviation is Bo (Bo uncer). It is characterized by having many class skills related to physical down, attribute down, and body parts destruction. The weapons he uses are the Dual Blades (PA), which is a melee weapon but can also handle mid-range combat, has a range attack ability that is on par, and boasts strong counter performance despite its unique operational feel, and Jet Boots (PA), which have a technical firing function, have high firepower during knockdown, and are highly capable of responding to aerial combat. Dual Blades and Jet Boots both have unique and excellent performance, and can be used to great effect even if you specialize in either. Furthermore, by combining the two and handling them appropriately, it is possible to increase firepower and support performance. Because the firepower can be greatly increased by player skills such as accurate counters and ingenuity in controlling movements with small movements, the difficulty level of operation when pursuing maximum firepower is also extremely high. In particular, dual blades have many unique specifications and require a certain amount of skill to operate stably. In addition, there are class skills for various knockdowns that can make the situation worse if you learn them without thinking, so it is essential to have prior knowledge. Overall, it can be said to be a class for intermediate players and above, with high performance but difficult to handle. Bouncer subclass Bouncer's EX style Bouncer as a subclass Comments ▲ ▼ List of class skills "Yellow background color" is a skill added on June 7, 2023 Defeat PP Gain Physical Decline Elemental Decline Decline Amplify Decline Gel Effect Special Ability Optimize Bo Defeat Amplify Partial Destroy Advantage Foie Brand Vertablot Zondeklad Fanatic Blade Blade Counter Alternation Jet Attack Extra Zangale Glanz Glitter Megidosphere Fanatic Blade Augment Photon Blade PP Recovery Jet Intensity Boot Trick Bounce Counter Thrust Drive Boot Arts Skip Beat Blade Arts Parry Pinion Blade Jet Boots Element Set Sturmsieker Thrust Drive Skip Attack Blade Arts Parry Counter Edge Blade Arts Alternation Sturmsieker Rapid Boost Sturmsieker PP Save Sturmsieker Short Recast Red text is a main class exclusive skill. Skill points can only be earned when clearing Trainier for the first time, and can be used by all classes. The current maximum skill point is 47. (=Aerio 20SP + Ritem 10SP + Kuvaris 10SP + Steer 7SP) ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Update Class skill "Blade SC Alternation" added Class skill "Boot Arts Skip Beat" added 2022/12/07 Update Class skill "Pinion Blade" added Class skill "Decline Geln Effect" added Added class skill "Sturmsie Car Rapid Boost" Added class skill "Special Ability Optimize Bo" 2022/06/08 Added class skill "Foie Brand" Added class skill "Photon Blade Protection" Added class skill "Blade Arts Parry Counter Edge" Added class skill "Thrust Drive Skip Attack" Added class skill "Sturmsie Car Short Recast" Added class skill "Blade Arts Parry" 2021/12/15 Added class skill "Blade Arts Parry" Added class skill "Sturmsieker PP Save" Added class skill "Zangale" Added class skill "Glantz Glitter" Added class skill "Megido Sphere" ▲ ▼ Defeat PP Gain Restores PP when enemies around you go down. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery rate 50% PP is recovered the moment you are down. It is effective not only for physical downs and attribute downs, but also for downs caused by parts destroyed by boss enemies such as BREAK and Dark False. Falls due to dive attacks or launch effects are not covered. For more information, please also refer to the Enemy Down/Part Destruction page. The amount of recovery is high, and the small fry Dolls after Ritem have a lot of physical strength, but there are more things that lower attributes, and if you properly aim for weak attributes, you can save a lot of trouble in recovering PP. Especially during a PSE burst, if there are multiple Tallis users in the room, it will be activated every few seconds, so there is no need to collect PP on your own. The targets of small fry are mainly to reduce the weaknesses of various medium-sized Dolls and Starless. It is easy to recognize the Gororon type's abdominal hardening (treated as a special down due to attribute down value accumulation) and the Dots type's foot punch (physical down), which commonly appear in the 4 regions and Luciel. If you're facing a boss-class opponent, you'll have fewer chances to activate it, but the original recovery amount is high, so you can rely on it. If you can calculate the rate of down value accumulation based on the class composition of the room, you can also adjust the timing when PP is depleted. The reaction distance needs to be verified. Since it is activated separately from your own actions, it can also be used in combos with continuous PAs such as Fear Eraser and Blaze Shot. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/06/05 Specifications have been changed so that the effect is applied to downs other than physical downs and attribute downs. ▲ ▼ Defeat Amplify The down value given to enemies will be increased. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Physical down value increase (main) 110% 112% 113% 114% 115% 116% 117% 118% 119% 120% Physical down value increase (sub) 101% 102% 103% 104% 105% 106% 107% 108% 109% 110% Attribute down value increase (main) 110% 112% 113% 114% 115% 116% 117% 118% 119% 120% Attribute down value increase (sub) 101% 102% 103% 104% 105% 106% 107% 108% 109% 110% Image Lv. 11 12 13 14 15 Physical down value increase (main) 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% - - - - - Physical down value increase (sub) 111% 112% 113% 114% 115% - - - - - Attribute down value increase (main) 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% - - - - - Attribute down value increase (sub) 111% 112% 113% 114% 115% - - - - - Although it is written as physical/attribute, it is actually effective in reducing the raid boss's break gauge. Since it has an effect on the cumulative value of each player, it increases as the number of bouncers increases. For some emergency quest bosses, the timing of BREAK may be too early and Photon Blast may not be able to be used in time. If you cut it completely, even if you acquire all other skills, you will still have 4 points left over, which will affect your combat power slightly. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/06/08 Added Lv.11 to 15 ▲ ▼ Partial Destroy Advantage Increases damage dealt and reduces damage received according to the number of parts destroyed for a single enemy. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 Increase in damage dealt per repetition 1.00% 1.30% 1.60% 1.80% 2.00% Increase in damage dealt per repetition (sub) 0.50% 0.60% 0.70% 0.80% 1.00% Reduction in damage received per repetition 2.00% 2.60% 3.20% 3.60% 4.00% Damage reduction per number (sub) 1.00% 1.20% 1.40% 1.60% 2.00% Upper limit of effective number of parts destroyed 3 When 3 parts are destroyed, main class increases damage by 6% + damage taken by 12%, sub class increases damage by 3% + damage taken by 6%. At maximum, it is quite powerful as a damage increase value obtained by subclass. This skill can be a reason to use Bo as a subclass when fighting bosses like Dark False Souras, where destroying parts is essential for strategy and has many parts that can be destroyed. ▼ Adjustment/fix history 2021/12/15 Fixed a bug where the damage reduction effect may not activate. Bug verification source: https://twitter.com/flowerint1034/status/1452179810751373312 ▲ ▼ Physical Decline Makes the enemy hit by PA easier to physically knock down. Furthermore, by applying PA, the effect increases up to 3 levels. *Main class/Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 Physical down value increase (1 stage) 105% Physical down value increase (2 stages) 110% Physical down value increase (3 stages) 115% Effect duration is 20 seconds, updated every time PA hits. By applying PA during the effect period, the cumulative value for level increase will increase. ▲ ▼ Elemental Decline Makes the enemy hit by PA more likely to have their attributes down. Furthermore, by applying PA, the effect increases up to 3 levels. *Main class/jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Attribute down value increase (1 stage) 105% Attribute down value increase (2 stages) 110% Attribute down value increase (3 stages) 115% Effect time is 20 seconds, updated every time PA hits. By applying PA during the effect period, the cumulative value for level increase will increase. If you look closely at the icon, you will see a number of stages from 1 to 3. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2021/12/15 Fixed a bug where the effect may not activate under certain conditions. ▲ ▼ Decline Amplify Makes it easier to increase the down value increase stage of Physical Decline and Elemental Decline. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Decline increase amount 140% 170% 200% ▲ ▼ Decline Geln Effect Adds an effect that weakens enemy attacks to Physical Decline and Elemental Decline. If you give an enemy both physical and elemental decline, it becomes even weaker. *Main class/Bouncer weapon only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Power (1st stage) 95% 93% 90% Power (2nd stage) 93% 91% 88% ▲ ▼ Special ability Optimize Bo Special ability of equipped weapon and armor Of these, the increase values for the striking weapon power and legal attack weapon power will be added together, and the higher value will be applied to the weapon power of both striking and legal attacks. *Main class/Bouncer weapon only Image Lv. 1 - - Has almost the same effect as Braver's class skill "Special Ability Optimize Br". Note that this skill is different from this skill in that it concerns the power of striking weapons and the power of shooting weapons. The reference source for each power increase value is only the base increase value and special abilities given to weapons and armor, and does not include changes in status due to quick food effects or add-on skills. In other words, refer to the value displayed in the ``Weapon Increase'' column in the status window. Not only can you use a mixed configuration that uses both weapons in a well-balanced manner, but you can also get benefits such as ``mainly using boots and using Fanatic Blade every cool time'' and ``mainly using DB and gaining three-dimensional maneuverability with surging and unconditional firepower when knocked down with surging'' (including multi-weapons).Although the time and effort of preparing weapons and the allocation of skill points are a problem, you can expect a significant improvement in firepower and convenience. If you use it as a legal attack, you can use Talis Technique as a sub-FO without any reduction in power (except for the main class correction) even when using DB as a main, so it will have a big advantage in terms of performance against small fish. Even when approaching attacks, you will be able to use range techniques (Zonde, Zan, etc.) using boots to increase the attack magnification. Although there are advantages to using the boots axis, it can be said that the ability to expand the DB axis configuration is generally a high skill due to the extra power in SP distribution. It is a skill whose value is greatly influenced by the environment of the OP attached to the equipment, and it is an excellent skill in an environment where it is difficult to balance both batting method multipliers, such as immediately after the start of Steer, but it is likely to become unnecessary in an environment where all the batting method multipliers are close to the theoretical value since the implementation of DF Aegis. ▲ ▼ Carve a mark of flame by hitting the enemy multiple times with Foiebrand's fire attribute technique. If you hit it with a technique of the same attribute, the engraving will detonate, an additional attack will occur, and PP will be recovered. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The number of techniques required to apply the stamp and detonate varies depending on the type of technique and whether or not there is a charge. See also fire element technique. In addition to techniques, it can be engraved with Fomergion, and can be imprinted and detonated with the Jet Boots Element Set. Elemental Bullet cannot do either. ▼ Accumulated value required for application and detonation (verification required) The accumulated value of each action is 2.7 for Foie (fireball 2.4 + vortex 0.1 × 3 hits), Charge Foie 3.8, Gifoie 2.7 (0.9 × 3 hits), Charge Gifoie 6 (2 × 3 hits), and Jet Boots pursuit 2.4. A stamp is given when the cumulative accumulated value is 9 or more, and it detonates when it is 14.5 or more. Since there is a maximum difference of 5.5 from the time of imposition to detonation, the detonation may not occur with the action immediately after the imprint is applied. The follow-up power when detonated is 80. PP recovery amount is 10. The power and PP recovery amount do not change depending on the type of technique or whether or not it is charged. Foie Brand (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Power has been upwardly revised (55→80) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Vertablot By applying an uncharged ice attribute technique to an enemy, it carves an ice emblem that is strengthened up to two levels depending on the number of times. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the emblem will detonate and deal additional damage according to the level of reinforcement. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you continue to use uncharged ice-based techniques, ice emblems will be carved on the enemy. (Upper limit is 2 levels) If you hit any charged ice attribute technique while the ice emblem is visible, the emblem will be consumed and a follow-up attack will occur. The number of hits required to carve a crest is 4 hits for the first stage and 7 hits for the second stage. The emblem will disappear automatically after about 15 seconds after being carved. Even if you hit a charge attack with no emblem (1st to 3rd stage), the number of stages will not be reset. The pursuit power is 200 in the first stage and 400 in the second stage. It is not affected by the detonation technique, and whether it is detonated with Bata or Gi Bata, the power will be the same if it is at the same stage. If you destroy parts (including the enhancer) using a detonation technique, the emblem will be reset without an explosion. The emblem detonation itself does not have a hit detection, but is it treated as a follow-up attack that is triggered at a time difference? It seems that if you apply the detonation technique as described above and at the same time cause part destruction or the part is hidden, a phenomenon will occur where no damage will be done even if the emblem detonation is activated. In this case, since the detonation itself has occurred, the emblem will be reset. Note that ice-attribute techniques changed by Wondo's ice-attribute attack explosion or Talis' PA are not included in this count. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. If you set the particle quality in the graphic settings to 2 or higher, the emblem will become white and clearly visible. (PC version only?) ▼ Adjustment/fix history 2021/08/04 Fixed a bug where the ice attribute technique used by NPCs affected the player's bartablot. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Sondeclad By hitting an enemy with an uncharged lightning attribute technique a certain number of times, you become charged. Furthermore, if you use a charged technique with the same attribute, the charge will be removed and that technique will be strengthened. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you keep hitting the non-charged version, a ring-shaped effect will appear around the player. If you activate any lightning charge technique in this state, the final stage of continuous damage will be strengthened. The number of hits required for the ring effect to appear is 10. If you can attack multiple enemies at the same time, the number of times required will decrease. Even if you use a charge technique in between, the count will not be reset. Note that this count does not include Wand's lightning attack explosion or Talis's PA-induced lightning attribute techniques. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Zangair By applying an uncharged wind attribute technique to an enemy, a wind ring is attached. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the wind ring will expand and an additional attack will occur. Attacks by Wind Ring change depending on the technique used. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Techniques/Wind Attributes. A type of skill like Virtablot that attaches a marker to an enemy without charging and detonates it with a charge. Attachment is completed with just one non-charge hit. No further steps will be taken. Zangale (C) SEGA Edit common items for this class As a note only for jet boots, the cumulative amount of wind rings given to the enemy by pursuing the "Jet Boots Element Set" is 1/3 of the normal technique. Therefore, in order to apply Wind Ring with the same class skill, it is basically necessary to hit PA three times (Full hit is possible only with Fierce Wave). ▲ ▼ By applying Glanz Glitter Light Attribute Technique to an enemy multiple times, it will create a ring of light around itself for a certain period of time. During deployment, if you use a technique with the same attribute, an additional attack will occur depending on the technique. If you deploy the ring of light again while it is being deployed, the effect will not overlap, and instead, the effect time of the ring of light that is currently being deployed will be reset. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The halo lasts for 10 seconds. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Light Attribute. If it is a light attribute technique, it can be deployed and maintained regardless of whether it is charged or uncharged, and additional attacks do not consume dedicated resources, so after deploying the light ring, you can fight without worrying about its operation. The deployment technique by Talis PA cannot deploy and maintain the ring of light, and no additional attacks will occur. Pursuit with the Jet Boots Element Set allows you to deploy and maintain a light ring. The number of hits required for deployment and maintenance is not simply the number of hits, but a cumulative value set for each technique's attack judgment is counted each time it hits, and when it reaches a certain level, it will be deployed and maintained, which seems to be similar to physical down/attribute down. For example, Granz can deploy the ring of light in 4 hits with either charged (4 attacks) or non-charged (1 attack), but if he continues to hit the charged version only for the first hit, he can finally deploy it on the 19th hit. On the other hand, if Gi Grants (charged and non-charged attack twice) hits many enemies at once, it can be deployed in one attack. The hit count during the development of the ring of light is maintained even after it disappears. For example, if you hit the non-charged version of Grunts three times during deployment and then disappear, you can deploy it again just by hitting the non-charged version of Grunts one more time. Granz Glitter (C) SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Megidosphere By applying an uncharged dark attribute technique to an enemy, you can stock up to 3 dark beads around yourself. Furthermore, when you use a charged technique of the same attribute, all Dark Beads are consumed, and the technique is strengthened according to the number consumed. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The Dark Bead lasts approximately 20 seconds. Additional attacks differ depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Dark Attribute. The more dark beads you consume at once, the more effective each one becomes. In addition to the non-charged version of the technique, you can also stock Dark Beads with Elemental Bullet and Jet Boots Element Set, but you cannot stock them with Talis Deployment Technique. Also, if you hit multiple enemies with Megiddo, you can stock up to 3 at once. It is difficult to say that stocking up Dark Beads one by one using the non-charged version technique is efficient in terms of PP, so be aware of stocking up using the methods described above. Megidosphere (C)SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Fanatic Blade [Active Skill] Instead of the power of the Photon Blade decreasing for a certain period of time, the Photon Blade will be fired at a specific timing while PA is activated. *Main class/Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 Power 50% Effect time 30 seconds Recast 90 seconds Additional photon blades will be fired at timing specific to each PA. The first half of each PA, Fires a total of two times in the second half or derivative part. Also, although it is written as PA activated, it will now fire twice when using the pinion blade. The photon blades fired during PA and pinion blades have lower power compared to weapon action ones. Also, a blade that fires in a long motion is more powerful than one that fires in a short motion. Specifically, only the derived parts of Harrier Rampage & Raving Falcon and the latter half of Rolling Pheasant have a power of 8 times the number of shots, and the rest have a power of 24 times the number of shots. This skill alone weakens the weapon action, so it is necessary to combine it with the Fanatic Blade Augment, which will be described later, to also increase firepower during PA. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Changed the effect to "Photon Blade is fired at a specific timing during the PA activation" effect. Adjusted effect duration and recast time. ▲ ▼ Fanatic Blade Augment Increases the number of Photon Blades fired during Fanatic Blade. *Main class/Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 2 Number of shots 4 6 A skill that is almost required to learn Fanatic Blade. By learning up to Lv.2, the number of shots will increase by 3 times and the total power of weapon actions will increase by 1.5 times. In addition, the amount of PP recovery and PA firepower can be increased by the number of shots fired. There is a small joke that if you fire a Photon Blade just before the Fanatic Blade's effect wears off, the Photon Blade's power decay will be removed and it will fly away (the total power of the Photon Blade will be tripled once). ▲ ▼ Photon Blade PP Recovery Increases the amount of PP recovered when a normal attack hits an enemy that is stuck with a Photon Blade. *Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery amount 5% After learning this skill, the photon blade will remain stuck in the enemy for 20 seconds. The upper limit for the number of sticks is 6 (if more than 6, the oldest one will disappear). If a multi-weapon includes dual blades, it will remain even if you switch weapons, and if you switch to a weapon that does not include dual blades, it will disappear even during the duration. When hitting an enemy with photon blades stuck in a normal attack (dual blade), the amount of PP recovered increases by "the number of photon blades stuck x 5%". Since this is a Dual Blade exclusive skill, it will not be activated by normal attacks from other weapons linked with a multi-weapon. ▲ ▼ Blade Counter Alternation Implemented on June 7, 2023 After a successful evasion with a weapon action, the normal attack and step counter will quickly change to an attack that charges the enemy. *For Dual Blades only Image Lv. 1 - - Power is 270 x 2 hits Two swords stacked in an X-shape from left and right → Step counter, which was a two-step attack that similarly cuts open in an inverted X-shape, changes to a behavior in which the two swords cut open from left to right with all their might while charging towards the target, generating a huge slash. As the description suggests, it is now possible to track and attack enemies in the air at high speed, and has a high enemy contact ability. It is significantly superior to normal step counters in terms of power, DPS, and attack range. It is easy to use as it can deal damage to multiple enemies. Even though Dual Blade has a strong habit of acting, he behaves obediently. 2023/12/06 Changed so that it is applied even after a successful evasion with a weapon action. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Changed the class skill name to "Blade Counter Alternation" (Before change: Blade SC Alternation) Changed the effect so that it is applied even after a successful avoidance with a weapon action ▲ ▼ Blade Arts Parry By pressing the weapon action button while PA is activated, you will nullify the attack from the enemy only once. If the invalidation is successful, parrying becomes possible again. *Main class/Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 - - A pale spherical barrier appears when used. Naturally, if you hold down the weapon action and use PA, it will explode. The invincibility time when a parry is executed is a little short, and if you activate it once in response to a continuous attack, you may be hit normally. Also, if you miss even once, you will not be able to use it while that PA is active, so you need to use it continuously at the right time. If you miss, there are ways to follow up by using step avoidance or invincibility time when PA is generated. Similar to Won's parry, in the case of an attack with an extremely short number of hits, such as Bujin's Special Sword Dance, a single input will cause multiple parries; Counter Edge will also trigger multiple times each time it is recast. See also the video on Rappy.commu. 2023/12/06 Added the effect "When an attack is successfully nullified, it can be activated again even in the same PA" effect. Skill Activation (C)SEGA Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Added the effect "When an attack is successfully nullified, it can be activated again even in the same PA" Added a sound effect when a parry is successful (not listed on the official website) ▲ ▼ Blade Arts Parry Counter Edge When an attack is successfully nullified by Blade Arts Parry, a counter will occur at the same time. *Main class/Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 Recast 0.25 seconds Power is 500. PP recovery 5. When a Blade Arts Parry is established, a counter attack will be added in which a huge photon blade is dropped from directly above the enemy. Because it is a pinpoint attack, it can be hit even if the enemy is at a distance at the same time as the attack. It is a fairly powerful attack method in that it can instantly return an attack with a power comparable to a step counter without interrupting PA and with just the short hitstop time required for parrying. (Dual Blade's own step counter has a power of 520 (540 with alternation), which is one of the highest power among melee weapons) Especially against continuous attacks, it is possible to counterattack with almost all hits even if the hit interval is quite short, and if successful, the instantaneous firepower will be tremendous. If you are in a robust state with some PAs such as Rolling Pheasant, it seems that the hit stop when a parry is made will be eliminated or reduced. Is it not possible with Massive Hunter? Since PA's motion will no longer be interrupted momentarily, DPS will further increase. Although the input difficulty is quite high, it is possible to activate both Counter Edge and Step Counter for a single attack. It is also possible to attack with almost no duration, which would not be possible with other weapons. Quickly input steps at the moment of parrying in time with the enemy's attack. The feeling of quickly shifting and pushing weapon actions and steps. If it goes well, it becomes a very powerful counter attack, but it is quite severe against attacks that only last for a moment. However, if you don't get the timing of the parry wrong, you can activate one of them and deal with the enemy's attack, so you can actively aim for it in situations where you have plenty of time. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Reduced recast time (not listed on official website) (2 seconds → 0.25 seconds) Increased PP recovery amount (not listed on official website) (0 → 5) 2022/10/05 Relaxed launch angle ▲ ▼ Pinion Blade [Active Skill] Fires a powerful slash forward by consuming the gauge accumulated from attacks. *Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 Power 2800 Recast 30 seconds After lightly sweeping it, lowering your stance and extending the photon blade, swing it vigorously and swing it down like a slam, sending out a shock wave. It seems like there is an attack judgment for the first slash or the swing with momentum close to a slash, but in reality it is a single attack with only the final shock wave. The preliminary motion is quite long, about 3.5 seconds until it swings down, so be careful when using it so you don't miss it. Invincible while activated. However, you will not be able to move at all until the payment motion after swinging down, and PP recovery will also stop. Although turning can only be done for a short period of time, from swinging up to swinging down, if you are locked on, you can turn around at high speed, making it surprisingly flexible. Fanatic Blade When active, fires the photon blade twice before swinging down. The gauge fills up by hitting some enemy target with an attack. If you attack a boss monster, the gauge will fill up more than three times as much as normal. The power is high, and the DPS is quite good considering the length of the entire motion. However, it is a behavior that makes it difficult to target weaknesses, and depending on the opponent, there is a possibility that you may not be able to take advantage of its specs. The range is long. It can reach the same distance as the Raven Falcon. It is also possible to penetrate and wrap around. Unlike the Fanatic Blade, if the Dual Blade is incorporated into a multi-weapon, it can be used as a different weapon and will automatically switch when activated. Overall, although the length of the motion is a concern, it's an invincible move with high power and high rotation rate, so it's not bad to use. It has also become possible to secretly collect large amounts of PP. There shouldn't be any problem if you just try to shake the gauge once it's filled up. However, since an additional attack by Photon Blade is now available while Fanatic Blade is activated, if the gauge is filled up just before Fanatic is recast, it is better to use it after Fanatic is activated. Power 2800×1 hit, PP recovery amount 100 ▼ Adjustment / modification history 2023/12/06 Upward adjustment of power (2600 → 2800) Increase PP recovery amount (not listed on official website) (0 → 100) 2023/06/07 Upward adjustment of power (2200 → 2600) ▲ ▼ Blade Arts Alternation By pressing a different PA button at a specific time while a PA is active, the attack will change to a derivative attack of that PA. *Dual Blade only Image Lv. 1 - - While PA is activated, it can be derived into a different PA. Although it says "specific timing," the timing at which a derived attack can be issued is not particularly different from when it is derived using the same PA. 2023/12/06 Replaced with "Photon Blade Protection". ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Class skill name changed to "Blade Arts Alternation". (Before change: Photon Blade Protection) Changed the effect to "become able to derive to a different PA at a specific timing while PA is activated". (Before change: Guard points will now be generated when using weapon actions) ▲ ▼ Jet Attack Extra The number of normal attack stages increases to a maximum of 4 stages. *Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 - - A kick-up motion that is the same as the derived counter of the weapon action is added. There is a short-term forward guard point. Due to the attack motion that is unique to Jet Boots, in which the entire character rushes in, the GP may move too far forward and not function properly. In particular, be careful about using the Boot Arts Skip Beat after getting close to it. ▲ ▼ Jet Intensity When an enemy is within a certain distance, holding down the normal attack button will cause a continuous attack that gradually increases the attack speed. *Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 - - Power is 65*2+70*2+75*3+80*5+2500 (total 15 hits, power 3395) 2nd and subsequent hits will not activate unless the enemy is within a certain distance. There seems to be plenty of leeway in the vertical direction, and you can activate up to 1.5 photon jumps. When locked on, the contact distance increases. Also, each shot will track the target you are locking on to. The final step is about one step. You can also move slightly sideways by inputting left and right movement. As long as the horizontal axis is within the range, it can be activated and continued even at vertical axis positions where the 14th hit does not hit. If you lock on Gororokus' core and activate it above your head, you can watch each other's attacks miss each other, except for the final hit. The explanation says it's a long press, but the judgment when you release the button is very lenient, and once the motion starts, it continues even if you keep hitting it repeatedly. For this reason, it is not possible to issue a normal attack immediately after canceling Jet Intensity, and it is necessary to insert some kind of motion in between. The trigger used is a long press, and although it is not a normal attack, if you keep pressing the normal attack during the PA or dive attack motion, it will usually be activated after the first hit is released. It is possible to connect directly to the thrust drive or counter additional input. Both will be used immediately after encountering the enemy, and depending on the boss, there will be a timing where you can avoid the big move and attack from the counterattack. Every time you shoot 2nd, 2nd, 4th, or 6th time, you will hear a "squeak" sound, the horizontal range will narrow, and the attack speed will increase. Finally, collect a little and kick down (1 hit). The final stage is long and powerful, and has an invincibility period. If you use it to its full potential, you'll be able to inflict massive damage that would normally only be seen with Photon Blast, and the DPS will be far superior to any attack that can be activated at any time. However, it takes about 8 seconds to reach the end, and there is no sturdiness (super armor), so in order to get the most out of it, you need to bring down the enemy or give it sturdiness in some way, so you can choose where to use it. Even if you use it against small minnows, it has too much firepower, and it is unstable against opponents who don't stop moving for a long time, so it is mainly used when knocking down boss enemies. The power of the continuous attack itself in the first stage is quite weak until the second half when the motion becomes faster, and in situations where the attack is not stable, fighting with other means tends to be the best solution. The final hit also has a long judgment in the vertical direction, so if your opponent has another part above the weak point, if you move, the final hit will be absorbed by the other part above, and you may not be able to increase the damage. Be careful when dealing with opponents who writhe in exaggerated fashion, such as Bancer types when the fire attribute is down, as they may fall out of the effective range and be reset. From the above, it is a so-called Roman cannon that can deliver a tremendous blow if it can be used all the way to its final stage, but its use is somewhat limited. However, if you start attacking the boss as soon as it goes down, you'll be almost in time for it to come back, making it a powerful option for attacks when it's down. Nex Aerio's anger state transition motion, etc. ダウン時以外で狙えるタイミングもなくもない。 長めにダウンするボスであれば、直前に未派生版 フィアースウェイブ を衝撃波がしっかり当たるよう設置していれば更に火力を伸ばせる。 一部のエネミーは攻撃範囲の死角に入ることで非ダウン時・非長時間モーション時でも出し切りを狙えなくもないが、連撃判定の範囲外に移動されるなど相手の機嫌次第で簡単に中断させられてしまうためあまり推奨はできない。 最後の手前の連撃は シュツルムジーカー のゲージの溜まりがかなり多く、最後の一撃はゲージがゼロから満タンまで溜まる。 出し切りからシュツルムジーカーに繋げることで発動中の自動回復と合わせてかなりの量のPPを回収できる。 シュツルムジーカーのゲージは最終段一回のヒットで満タンになる。高さをずらして最終段だけ当てるようにすれば鉱石やアイテムコンテナ等でもゲージを溜められる。 発動中、PPは自動回復するが、攻撃のヒットによるPP回収はできない。 カメラが激しく左右に振られるので酔いに注意。 ▼ 各ボス毎の完走可能タイミング クラッグベア系 ダウンしないため少々厳しい。ジャンプボディプレスや掴み攻撃をされると終わるので安定しない。 頭部・後頭部に密着しているとぐるぐるパンチや叩きつけ衝撃波の死角に入るので、運が良ければできなくもないといった感じ。 バンサー・バンシー系 上記の通り炎弱点の時に属性ダウンを取ると大きく身悶えするため、首振りの真ん中辺りに位置取る必要がある。 弱点の頭にヒットするかどうかは安定せず、等倍部位に当たることも。（これは他のジェットブーツPAや炎テクニックなどでも同じだが） シーズナルイベント期間中の弱点属性によってはダウン中身悶えしないため、安定する場合もある。 ワウロン系 属性ダウン時。 チアキュリオ系 属性ダウン時。 モーションは比較的ゆっくりとしているが、最下部の弱点部位に決めたい場合は属性ダウン時以外は基本安定しない。 後頭部破壊前。 後頭部をロックオンしつつ腰より上の高度で発動していけば、被弾を高確率で避けつつ連続して狙っていける。部位破壊後はロックオンできなくなるため不可。 ビグフロッガ 、 エルディサイズ系 各種ダウン時。 ブジン 属性ダウンまたは2回目の物理ダウン時。 ナグルス系 、 オルク 各種ダウン時。ダウン時間が少し短めであまり余裕がない。 通常時も攻撃の死角から決められなくもないが相手の機嫌次第。 ヴァラス 各種ダウン時。ダウン時間が少し短めであまり余裕がない。 ダウン復帰の飛び上がりで弱点をスカされることもあるため少し浮いた位置で始動すると安定する。 鉄拳トルネードの後半。 ただしこちらは武器アクションカウンター×6～7→派生通常→ガストなどの方が良いかもしれない。 怒り時の落下パンチに対しても最終段の無敵時間が間に合うが、始動タイミングはかなりギリギリになる。 片腕ずつ攻撃するコンボの最中や全力ロケットパンチの後に入れられなくもないがやはり安定しない。 ダイダル系 各種ダウン時。ダウン時間が長めなので、次の攻撃が来るまでに胸部弱点→左足へと2セット入れることが可能。 ビーム照射中などに背部弱点を狙う手もある。レンジャーのクラススキル「 ウィークバレット 」（WB）がない場合は検討を。 ネクス・エアリオ 、 ネクス・ヴェラ 各種ダウン時。ダウンの種類(物理・属性・両羽根破壊・大技後の弱点コア・BREAK)によってダウン時間が異なる。物理ダウン時は少々短めで始動を急ぐ必要あり。 怒り状態移行モーション。モーション開始付近から始動すれば次の行動には間に合う。 ネクス・ヴェラの大爆発玉チャージ時。 ペダス・ヴェラ 各種ダウン時。 浮き上がってからのビット攻撃時。ただし膝を狙う場合はビットが飛んでくる可能性がある。 デストラグラス 双銃形態のダウン時。 四脚形態はダウン時間がかなり短い。2本破壊時では足のみ可能、4本破壊時では本体に最速でぎりぎり間に合うかどうか。 四脚形態の通常時。本体と脚部の間で、脚部装甲の少し上辺りの高度に陣取ると殆どの攻撃の死角になる。 ただし回転レーザー時は素早くロックを解除して本体を蹴りに行かないと、ロック部位が遠くに行って中断してしまうため注意が必要。 四脚形態の、本体分離からの拠点破壊攻撃のチャージ時。猶予は30秒ほどあるため、素早く駆けつければ基本間に合う。 双銃形態の時間切れ時の拠点破壊攻撃は猶予がほぼないため無理。 ▲ ▼ ブーツトリックバウンスカウンター 武器アクションによる回避成功時に、自動的にカウンターが発生する。さらに通常攻撃を行うことで、追加でカウンターが発生する。 ※ジェットブーツ専用 画像 Lv. 1 - - 武器アクション による回避成功時、蹴りで衝撃波を放つ。 The range is long for a melee weapon (not as far as a technique). Each time you activate it, you move forward one step. As a counter, it has modest power, but the motion is short, allowing for continuous attacks and continuous counters against long-lasting attacks. Pedas Gun's triple fire, Valas' Tekken Tornado, etc. are notable. You can move freely during motion. Sturmsieker's gauge also fills up, so you'll want to aim for attacks that can be avoided repeatedly. By inputting a normal attack after the counter, an additional attack will be performed with the same motion as the 4th normal attack. The distance and power of forward stepping is superior to that of normal use. Invincible during motion. By delaying the input, you can get a reasonably long invincibility time. Power is shock wave 200, kick up 260*2. PP recovery amount is shock wave 7, kick up 5*2. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Increased power (kick up 220 → 260) 2021/12/15 Fixed a bug where an effect indicating the activation of the effect would be played even when the evasion was successful with a weapon action other than jet boots. *The effect is not activated, and only the effect will be corrected. ▲ ▼ After activating the Thrust Drive technique, press the normal attack button at a specific timing to charge the enemy. *Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Power 125 PP recovery 5 After activating the technique, if you enter a normal attack when the body emits a strong purple light, it will approach the enemy in about 3 steps and attack. It looks similar to Photon Blast when activated (the entire body emits light), but it is not invincible. It seems to have some flinch resistance. In the December 2023 update, guard points during assault were added. (Only in front?) It can be activated without any problem even without charging. Since it guides the enemy up and down to the lock area, it can chase to high places such as Pedas's weak points, and it is also possible to fight like a dagger. It passes through the parts caught in the way and other targets and flies to the locked part. In the case of a multi-weapon with legal weapons, it can only be activated if the technique is used in jet boots form. When using a multi-weapon with a legal attack weapon that can be equipped by another class, and in a configuration that includes the relevant class (Rod or Talis + Sub Fo, Wand or Talis + Sub Te), it must be in jet boots form in advance. If you create weapons other than boots as your main weapon and then switch from other weapons only when a boss goes down, the process will be a lot of waste, as you will have to change the weapon palette -> miss the boot attack -> technique -> thrust drive... PA Surging Impulse can now do almost the same job, so it's a good idea to use it as a means of aerial movement when using multi-weapons or switching weapons. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Adjusted performance Added guard point Is it now possible to activate by holding down the normal attack during technique motion? ▲ ▼ Thrust Drive Skip Attack After using Thrust Drive, the normal attack changes to the 4th attack. *For Jet Boots only Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ Boots Arts Skip Beat Implemented on June 7, 2023 The normal attack after using different PAs in succession changes into a powerful attack that is treated as the third stage. *Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 - - Perform a high-speed kick-up + heel drop. The power is 80 + 260 2 hits, which instantly closes the distance of 2 steps. The movements are dynamic and fast, so it takes some getting used to. It is especially easy to activate by holding down Violent Gale → Fierce Wave. As explained that it is treated as a 3rd stage normal attack, if you enter a normal attack immediately after this attack, the 4th stage will be activated. There are guard points in all directions during the motion. You can move quite freely in the horizontal axis just before kicking. Although it is a powerful attack, Sturmsieker's gauge does not fill up. ▲ ▼ Jet Boots Element Set When you hit an enemy with PA, an additional attack will occur depending on the attribute of the last technique used. *For jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Recast 1 second A skill that allows a follow-up attack of the same attribute to occur when jet boots PA hits when using a technique while equipped with jet boots. The attributes of the last technique used are set regardless of whether it is charged or not. It is similar to Wondo's Hogeki Explosion, but note the difference in specifications. It does not change when a multi-weapon is in another legal attack weapon form. If your game is based on something like Taris, be careful when the quest starts. If the weapon is based on a striking or shooting weapon, there is no need to worry as it will be changed to jet boots when the technique is activated. By pursuit, Vertablot, Sondeclad, etc. The skill level that advances when a non-charged technique hits is accumulated. Ice (4/7), Lightning (10), and Darkness (1~3) progress in the same way as the non-charge technique. Wind gives a wind ring after 3 chases, flame gives a stamp after 4 chases, and detonates after 7 times. Only the Foie brand can be detonated as is in a follow-up attack. The power of the pursuit varies depending on the attribute: fire, lightning, wind, light (75) > ice, darkness (65). Basically, it is better to match it to the weak point attribute, but if you do not have a weak point power correction with quick food, taking into account the automatic detonation of Foie brand, the total damage of the non-weak point fire is slightly higher than the weak point ice and darkness. Pursuit attacks have a minimal accumulation of attribute down values. The level of whether this occurs once when fighting a higher rank normal boss enemy for a long time solo. To apply Elemental Decline, it is necessary to hit with PA, but if you fight solo with only PA without using techniques, you will not receive much synergy. Pursuit attacks have a 1 second recast time after the previous occurrence, so if you repeatedly hit a PA with a motion of less than 1 second (60 frames), there will be a time when the follow-up attacks will not occur. (Example: In the non-derived version of Spinning Gust, the follow-up frequency is every 2nd PA) (*Strictly speaking, it is determined for each HIT and each enemy, so if it is activated on the 1st hit, it will be activated on the 2nd to 3rd hit of the same enemy. Therefore, if you use it from close contact, strictly speaking, if you use it about 3 to 4 times, the next cool will not come around by the 3rd hit) There is no time limit to the effect of the attribute, and it is basically not canceled until you perform a specific movement such as returning to the Arcus base. It has been confirmed that changing weapon palettes, unequipping equipment, or entering and exiting the cocoon does not release the issue. In addition to being canceled by block movement, including region movement, it may also be canceled by entering and exiting Trainier. Immediately after moving, we recommend re-assigning attributes just in case. When applied, a thin halo will be attached to the ankle depending on the color of the attribute (flame: orange, ice: light blue, lightning: blue-white). It can be seen while standing, walking, or running while the sword is drawn, but it disappears during the Photon Dash when the sword is sheathed. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Adjusted power Ice (30 → 65), Lightning (70 → 75), Wind (70 → 75), Dark (25 → 65) 2021/12/15 Fixed a bug where the stages of "Batablot" and "Zondeclad" would not progress correctly due to additional attacks that occur. Fixed a bug where the effect of an additional attack would be played before the recast is completed when attacking an object. Fixed a bug where the recast time of an additional attack that occurs under certain conditions would be extended. ▲ ▼ Sturmsieker [Active Skill] Releases a powerful blow by consuming the accumulated gauge by attacking and avoiding weapon actions. *Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Power 1620 Recast 20 seconds Can only be activated with jet boots. As a general rule, the gauge is filled up by long press PA of jet boots, jet intensity, and weapon action avoidance. The amount accumulated differs depending on PA, but the accumulated amount is relatively large for any action, and it is quite easy to recharge before recasting. Spinning Gust: It accumulates quickly by holding down repeatedly, and PP recovery is also excellent, so you don't need to be as generous as with PB. Although the description says it's a single hit, the damage is caused by multiple hits. The attack detection in the front direction is much wider than the motion, and it can reach far enough to be considered a small projectile. The up, down, left, and right judgments are not very wide, and the attack judgment occurs in front of the character, so if you move after activation, it may not hit at all. Even after activation, you can change direction until just before the attack judgment occurs, but you want to aim for the enemy to become stiff after the attack as much as possible. PP is restored when you hit an enemy. If you hit multiple targets, you will recover the total amount of hits. Invincible during motion. The power has been significantly increased due to adjustments made through updates. Since the DPS has become more than Jet Intensity, I want to use it as much as possible, such as immediately after Intensity. Through repeated upper adjustment, it has become an attack that boasts extremely high power and DPS. When fighting based on boots, it's best to think about how much you can use this skill. Power is 180*9HIT, PP recovery amount is 6*9HIT ▼ Adjustment/correction history 2023/12/06 Upward adjustment of power (1215→1620) 2023/08/02 Upward adjustment of power (900→1215) Upward adjustment of PP recovery amount (3*9→6*9) ▲ ▼ Sturmsieker Rapid Boost After Sturmsieker is activated, PA's attack speed increases for a certain period of time. *Main class/Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 45 seconds The speed increase of PA motion is approximately 1.1 to 1.15 times. It is effective in raising the DPS of Spinning Gust and Violent Gale to almost the same level as a tactic that combines Fierce Wave and its derivative Surging Impulse with something other than PA. While active, a blue aura appears on the character. Spinning Gust It is possible to maintain this all the time by doing close-quarters combat that involves long-pressing and evading weapon actions. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Effect duration extended (30 seconds → 45 seconds) ▲ ▼ Sturmsieker PP Save After Sturmsieker is activated, PP consumption will be reduced for a certain period of time. *Main class/Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 45 seconds PP consumption 90% As the effect description says "For jet boots only", the PP consumption reduction effect is only applied to actions using jet boots. Therefore, if you are using a multi-weapon weapon type other than jet boots, such as dual blades, you will not be eligible. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/12/06 Extended effect time (30 seconds → 45 seconds) ▲ ▼ Sturmsieker short recast Reduces the time until Sturmsieker can be used again when evading with a weapon action is successful. *Main class/Jet boots only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Recast reduction 5 seconds 10 seconds 15 seconds Activates every time you evade. Specifically, if you perform continuous counters with the Tidal series' strafing beam, Luciel Search's strong lightning field, or the beam from Dark Falz's hand, the recast will end all at once. Even if you are hit with avoidance counters (shock wave part that is automatically triggered), it is better to shoot Sturmsieker in terms of DPS, so it is better to aim in situations where you can aim. ▲ ▼ Class skills scheduled to be implemented in the future *Currently, there are no class skills scheduled to be added. ▲ ▼ Bouncer subclasses ▼ BoHu BoHu A durable configuration mainly suitable for dual blades. Although the dual blade has a powerful blade art parry as a means of evasion and countering, it has weaknesses such as short invincibility time and ineffective repeated attacks, making it easy to get hit if you are not used to it. In particular, in situations where you jump into a group of solid enemies like a defender and repeatedly use Stoke Destruction without super armor, Massive Hunter and various durability-up skills will shine. Of course, you can also use the sword as a multi-weapon to reinforce the poor defense of the dual blade. In addition, common to both weapons, the position adjustment using the familiar wire without consuming PP is a blessing. You can force Jet Intensity while Massive Hunter is in effect, but the conditions are a little strict, such as the opponent not moving very much and the opponent not attacking frequently (if it's an opponent attacking frequently, it's better to counter it obediently). ▼ BoFi BoFi Defeat skills mesh with Bouncer's various down accumulation value increasing skills. Especially for dual blades, the twin dagger's spin allows it to stay in the air and maintain high guard performance, which is attractive. Synergy is relatively strong. ▼ BoRa BoRa The small fish processing performance is attractive due to the homing dart against scattering and Divine Impact against crowding. With the implementation of SPA Optimize Bo and Composite Sole Gigas, it is now possible to create a practical OP configuration with either hitting method + shooting. However, Bouncer generally has a high area attack ability even on its own, so I wouldn't say that the synergy is very strong. If it's in a room where the main Ra is, you can expect an increase in firepower due to WB benefits. By combining Defeat PP Gain and Launcher Weapon Action, it is possible to replenish a large amount of PP in two stages while attacking. There is a great trick to use this additional charge to continue irradiating Fear Eraser. Although it is more than a street performance, if it is successful, it can be expected to consume 200 PP or more = continuous irradiation for 20 seconds, so the overall power is quite impressive. Depending on how you increase your PP and the timing of downtime, it is not a dream to be able to consume over 300 = 30 seconds. ▼ BoGu BoGu PP specialized configuration part 1. A combination that improves PP recovery ability during attacks and step avoidance. Both Dual Blades and Jet Boots consume a lot of PP to begin with, so I'm glad that they increase PP recovery power. Sturmsieker will also become more reliable as a means of recovering PP. Since the original PP recovery amount is poor on the Dual Blade side, attack PP recovery cannot be said to be very compatible. However, Dodge PP gain, which has a fixed PP recovery amount and a large number, will now be applied to weapons other than Gu, ステップカウンターを多用するデュアルブレードにとっては嬉しいスキルになった。 一方、ジェットブーツではラピッドブーストの追加もあって、シュツルムジーカーのPP回復量増加がなかなかに好相性。 ボスエネミーに接近戦を挑む場合は必然的にジーカーの回数が増えるので、ボスのみを相手にする状況下では下記サブFoよりもPP周りが快適になる可能性がある。 またジェットブーツはステップカウンターが武器アクションによるカウンターとは使い分けの関係なので、ドッジPPゲインもそれなりに恩恵がある。 一応ホーミングダートも使えるようになるが、BoRaの欄で記載されている通り、元々範囲攻撃力の高いバウンサーにはそこまでシナジーは強くない。 その異様な攻撃範囲が役立つのは、全敵のタゲをプレイヤー側が奪いたい防衛戦や、弱い敵が広く散らばりがちな探索セクションでの雑魚狩りなど。 しかし戦闘セクションでの狩りではサブFoに及ばない部分が多く、どちらかと言えばボス戦を含んだクエストに向いた組み合わせとなる。 ▼ BoFo BoFo PP特化構成その2。キリングPPによる戦闘セクションの高効率化を始めとした、PP周りを快適にして戦いたい人向け。 バウンサー武器は乱戦中のPP回収能力が若干低いので、乱戦中に勝手にPPが回復して行くこの組み合わせは特にありがたみを感じるかもしれない。 特に、PP運用面に弱点を抱えるデュアルブレードからすると非常に有用な組み合わせであり、ボス単体相手ではPPコンバートが役に立つ場面も多い。 ジェットブーツについても汎用性の高さからどこでも使えるサブクラスであり、 テクニック関連スキルを共有しているので、スキル面でも融通の利く組み合わせである点も見逃せない（と同時に、双方で同じスキルを習得すると無駄が発生してしまうので、その点には要注意）。 他の武器種ではPPコンバートがダウン時ラッシュに重宝されるが、ブーツではジェットインテンシティの存在により持て余しがちになる。 ▼ BoTe BoTe フォトンブラストゲージ増加系スキルが欲しければ。 Teは基本的にメインクラスで使ってナンボのクラスなので、趣味気味の構成。 一応Te側でテクニック関連のスキルを取ることでスキルポイントの節約ができるが、その目的ならFoを使ったほうがいいだろう。 ▼ BoBr BoBr レスタエフェクトアンプリファイやブレイクフォールHPゲインなど、回復能力によって耐久性を上げるのに役立ってくれる。 特に、デュアルブレードは乱戦中の被弾が嵩みがちなため、そのフォローができる。 バレットボウによって苦手な遠距離戦を可能とする点も魅力的。 総じて、デュアルブレード側との相性が比較的良いサブクラスと言える。 ▼ BoWa BoWa 高い回復能力・タクトのパリィにより耐久性を補う型。主にDBとシナジーがある。 オールドフレンズレスキューやレスタエフェクトコンティニュエンスがうっかり被弾しやすいバウンサーにはかなり有難い。 また、タクトとマルチウェポンにすることで高度を維持しつつの遠隔座標カウンターが可能となる。これは単純にガード性能の強化の他、ステップカウンターを行いづらいエネミーに対しての有用な攻撃手段・PP回復手段となる。 スペシャルアビリティオプティマイズBoを用い法撃重視の装備を組んでいれば、フレドランブレスという強力な範囲攻撃が活用できる点も魅力だ。 総括すれば、耐久性の向上と強力な範囲攻撃が魅力のサブクラスと言え、相性は良好である。 （ブーツ目線での追記求む） ▼ BoSl BoSl クリティカルアップ 、 ギャラントアタッククリティカルアップ で5%クリティカル率を上昇させることができる。 所詮5%なので過度な期待はできないがBo特有のダウンの取りやすさを活かせば、Slのアドオンスキルのダウン時クリティカル率アップを加え最大20%ものクリティカル率を上乗せできる。 デュアルブレードではPA1回毎のモーションが長く クリティカルヒットPPゲイン を1度のPP消費に対して数回発動出来得るため、PPに余裕が出来る。 武器プリセットのフィクサ･フェタルでクリティカル率を上乗せするとより快適になる。 またクリティカルか否かの影響の大きい単発高火力技なピニオンブレードやジェットインテンシティのフィニッシュ時もあるため、そこでクリティカルを出しやすくするという点でも相性が良い。 運に左右される部分もあるが、サブ選びで迷ったらとりあえずで入れておいても十分機能してくれる。 ▲ ▼ バウンサーのEXスタイル ▼ アドラス アドラス どちらかといえばデュアルブレード向け。ただし武器アクションは回避判定なのでブレードアーツパリィで無効化回数を稼ぐ必要あり。 とはいえ元々ブレードアーツパリィによるカウンターが主力かつ短時間で連発可能なのでそこまで気にするほどではない。 アドラスパーフェクションも武器アクションカウンターが高DPS+高速接近で差し込みやすくはある。 ▼ ブリッツ ブリッツ ブリッツカスケードについては、デュアルブレードは同PA連打自体はしやすいもののPA1発がかなり長い。 レイヴィングファルコンをタイプ3にすると、動作の短い派生後攻撃を即時発動できるようになるため使いやすくなる。 ジェットブーツはタイプ2ヴァイオレントゲイルなら短押し3連発が有力な選択肢になり得る。 ブラストエコー・トリガーアタック用のヒット数稼ぎは両武器とも得意な方。 ▼ セレスト セレスト セレストリエイテレーション対象スキルはピニオンブレードとシュツルムジーカー。 シュツルムジーカーは他の手段でゲージ高速回収＆リキャスト短縮が可能なので、もっぱらファナティックブレードの効果中にピニオンを2回発動する狙いになる。 一方でセレストフローレス対応攻撃は上記アクティブスキルかブーツテクニック、タイプ3レイヴィングファルコンのみ。 特にデュアルブレード主体の場合はタイプ3レイヴィングファルコンを活用していきたいところ。これが追加されたおかげでセレストフローレスの消化にほぼ困らなくなっている。 両ディクラインとディフィートアンプリファイのお陰でブラストエコー・トリガーアタック用のダウン値には困らないと思われる。 ▲ ▼ サブクラスとしてのバウンサー ディクライン各種がメイン限定のため、自分以外へのダウン発生補助は出来なくなる。 ディフィートアンプリファイ のダウン値増加はFiのダウン中ダメージアップ系スキルと噛み合う。 Slのクリティカル関連スキルとアドオンスキルによるダウン時クリティカル率アップも噛み合い自体は悪くないのだが、ガンスラッシュの基本的なダウン値蓄積量が低いため倍率型のディフィートアンプリファイは効果が低いのが泣き所。 部位破壊を活用できるボス戦が前提であるなら パーシャルデストロイアドバンテージ 目当てで使う手もある。 弱点露出の為にほぼ確実に破壊が発生するペダス・ヴェラやオルク等には単純に1~3%常時火力が上がるため効果が高い。 ほぼ常時効果が乗る事になるため、有効な敵にはFiのディフィートアドバンテージ以上の総火力の上昇が期待できる。 逆に破壊できる部位を持たないブシンやヴァラスには全く効果がない、戦う敵との相性差がとても大きい。 エアリオリージョンの敵で部位破壊がほぼ必須となる敵はオルクなど限定的であったが、リテムリージョン以降は大きく増加。火力増強のサブクラスとしてそれなりに効果を期待できる。 2023年6月より実装された スターレス は小型のヴォルガを除くほぼ全種 *1 が破壊可能部位（宝石）を備えており、発揮できる局面がさらに増えた。 宝石が弱点扱いで与ダメ倍率が高い、宝石が健在だと厄介な特殊能力が付くといった点で、自然と破壊狙いになるのも狙い目。 特にボス格スターレスは宝石を破壊しても一定時間or怒り突入で再生する、再生後の再破壊もPDアドバンテージの段階進行対象となるといった点で好相性。 デュアルブレードでは ファナティックブレード 、 ブレードアーツパリィ とその関連スキル、および フィジカルディクライン がメインクラス限定。 普段遣いに関わる重要なスキルがいずれもメイン限定のため、サブ運用だと攻防の両面でかなりのハンデが発生する。 デュアルブレードPA自体が完走前提の威力配分となっているためアーツパリィ無しでは額面上の威力を発揮しにくく、カウンターエッジなしだと二重カウンターによる高火力反撃も望めないため、満足に使えるものではなくなってしまいがち。 ジェットブーツ関連スキルではシュツルムジーカー ラピッドブースト 、同 PPセイブ 、同 ショートリキャスト 、および エレメンタルディクラインン がメインクラス限定。 上記はブーツ主軸の戦闘において影響が大きいスキル群であり、メイン運用時とサブ運用時で操作感覚が大きく変動する原因となる。 2025年8月時点では上記ジーカー関連以外にブーツの立ち回りに影響のあるメイン限定スキルが存在しないため、ジーカーをあまり使わない、もしくはブーツ自体を特定場面でのみ起用する運用であればあまり影響はない。 ダウン時大火力の ジェットインテンシティ はサブクラスの武器で出せる火力としては強力。 「打射法倍率を全て高く保てる」環境においては「ジェットインテンシティ+シュツルムジーカー」という大技を(武器を用意する必要はあるが)メインクラスの武器を軸に使いながら実用的に追加できるため、サブクラスに据えた際の攻撃手段が豊富なのは利点と言える。 Basically, the great skills of other classes and weapons cannot be used unless the corresponding weapon is used as the core, so these and Braver's Brave Combat are the only great skills that can be used as a sub-weapon and can be used immediately. Continuous counterattacks with Boot Trick Bounce Counter against long-lasting attacks such as irradiation beams are exhilarating. The high-performance counterattacks unique to each weapon type, such as the rod's parry to collect PP and the elemental bullet to advance the engraving, and the tact's quince gauge accumulation, are basically guard-type and suitable for single-shot attacks, so they can coexist with the evasion-type boot counter. PA Surging Impulse The derivative version's continuous damage inflicting ability is valuable in terms of the game as a whole, and it is also easy to use as a sub-operation. By setting it as a subclass of Fo or Te, various engraving skills such as Foie Brand can be entrusted to the subclass. There was a time when it was standard for these classes to use Jet Intensity as a large firepower when knocked down, but now the benefits of using main class weapons have increased due to the addition of main-specific skills, so opportunities to use them are limited. ▲ ▼ Comments Displaying the latest 20 comments. See comment page Hide image I would like to expand the scope of effect of this Defeat PP gain like Fi's Defeat Advantage -- 2024-06-20 (Thursday) 10:45:43 I understand that it is stronger if you use both with Marupon, but since you have to make full use of weapon attack, normal and technique, if you use a controller, won't you run out of space in the weapon palette even with 3 buttons? For the time being, I'm doing it with a DB axis and a shoe axis, but instead of half-heartedly trying to fit it into one or two palettes, I think it would be less troublesome to have two dedicated ones and switch between them as appropriate -- 2024-09-18 (Wed) 18:40:10 I want the second and third action palettes. When switching weapons, there is always a lime lag, which makes it unusable and the sub-parameters become cluttered... -- 2024-09-18 (Wednesday) 18:48:31 New custom tree Spinning Gust (C1: Changes to attack that sends a shock wave & increases forward distance C2: Power of attack after derivation +65% / Speed reduction after derivation C3: Thrust drive can be activated after PA) Stalk Destruction (C1: Expands attack range C2: Increases attack speed after derivation / Disables descent during second attack / Power after derivation -18% C3: Add continuous attack after attack when not derived/power when not derived -10%) -- 2024-12-04 (Wed) 18:32:24 I want to use jet boots, but I wonder what it's like to fight around. Also, as I'm reading in the comments section, is it better not to take skills that increase the down value? -- 2025-01-02 (Thu) 19:39:51 Basically, it's better to take it. Don't take comments like that seriously because they only look at cases where it worked negatively and ignore the benefits -- 2025-01-02 (Thursday) 20:25:47 You can't get knocked down twice in the big boss, so is there any advantage? -- 2025-01-03 (Friday) 13:41:28 The sooner you knock him down and use his PB and skills, the faster the next one will be.In the first place, the only big boss that only knocks you down once is Aegis, who you don't have a chance to fight anymore, and in the emergency version of Aegis, even if you break in the end, you'll be overkilled, or worse, you won't even break and will get a DPS check, so breaking earlier is an advantage in itself. Are you seriously saying that there is no advantage to down value in the current environment? If the lower down value is better, then Gu will be the strongest, right? -- 2025-01-03 (Fri) 14:05:38 Souras can break any number of times, so the down value is fair, and Dallion doesn't really have any, so there are no advantages or disadvantages. -- 2025-01-03 (Fri) 14:08:18 You're reading too much between the lines. If you want to get into it, pick a mysterious specification that does not increase the down value with a class skill that increases the power like a chain -- 2025-01-04 (Sat) 13:10:03 Basically, use Surge derived and attack with Thrust or Surge underived, use Gale and Gust, and skip normally 4, set up Fierce if there is a chance, and when the gauge is full, use G-Kar. Oh, don't forget to add attributes according to your weaknesses. It's hard to understand in text, and I think there are some omissions, so I think it's better to check it out with videos such as Tsube. -- 2025-01-03 (Fri) 00:41:34 I feel the darkness of the boots that even if I've done it this far, it's not enough for DB. -- 2025-01-05 (Sun) 11:02:53 If it's up to this point, it's not enough for DB or even other weapons. Well, I think that owners who want to start JB will start with Ogi's movements, but if you want to make it more efficient than other weapons, you need to focus on Fierce, Stekan, and Geeker -- 2025-01-05 (Sun) 15:07:50 Thank you everyone for the various replies, it was helpful. I'll try to find a video or something -- 2025-01-04 (Sat) 13:08:02 The strongest option might be to aim to shoot G'Kar every 5 seconds. Gale 2 Noncha uses a skill that makes G'kar CT 5 seconds with just one evasion while filling up the immediate gauge -- 2025-01-08 (Wed) 21:42:12 This is it after all. I feel like I can avoid Gale 2 noncha rubbing and avoid it and turn Gale around. -- 2025-01-13 (Mon) 23:14:45 I saw that NGS's Bo is not very strong unless you use both DB and boots, is that so? From the perspective of skill points, I use them separately for DB and boots, but don't you run out of skill points and more importantly, palettes? You can reduce the Defeat skill, but the weapon palette on the boots side is just not enough -- 2025-03-21 (Fri) 01:08:20 I think saying that it's not very strong is probably an understatement. It's strong enough with just one, but if you want to get to the bottom of it, I think it's right that you need to master both. If you try to use it half-heartedly with low proficiency, your DPS will actually drop. Isn't the lack of palettes due to the fact that all attribute techniques are always set? Since I only use about 2 types in one quest anyway, I guess if I switch them out for each quest and delete the unnecessary ones, I can do something about it. -- 2025-03-21 (Fri) 03:58:24 I always want to include Foiesonde because it appears in almost every quest, and if I include two types for weak attributes, it's still not enough, right? I won't be able to play both swords Bo unless you do something about the sub-parade problem... -- 2025-03-22 (Sat) 12:34:28 ●Skills: I don't need all the tech stamps. Defeat 10 allows you to roll all other skills. If your equipment is top-notch, you don't need to optimize. ●Attribute change: I don't use it often (I don't want to), so if I prepare one weapon palette that includes all the tech types and switch between them when I have free time, I only need two weapon palettes on the boots side, including all the PAs. ●Strength: Basically, one DB is enough, and if you can use G'kar well, it's even stronger. Boots are easier to use for PB, so Marupon is highly recommended. ●Boot Axis: It's strong enough if you can shoot G'Kar every 5 seconds, but its firepower is hopeless when you can't get a counter, so it becomes even stronger if you can hit it with Fanatic DB when it's down. -- 2025-03-21 (Fri) 11:59:42 Can't keep up with the intensity when down... -- 2025-09-02 (Tue) 09:49:13 Actually, what does Ryoto Bo do? Is it basically a DB axis parican, and in between, you can use surging and as soon as the gauge is filled up, you can use Geeker? With Surging and Geeker during this period, I wonder if it will become much stronger than using DB alone -- 2025-09-02 (Tue) 09:50:51 Isn't PB stronger with boots? Geeks also accumulate. -- 2025-11-13 (Thu) 20:21:42 ...Blitz is the only option -- 2025-10-02 (Thu) 18:50:10 Blitz is easy, you can collect PP by activating Geeker with Gale x3 or Blitz Cascade with DB instant derivative x3, and since it's a lot of trouble, Blitz Trigger Attack and other things are always activated, and the rotation of PB increases, so you'll have to use it more and more. I think Adoras could be fun if it matches your play style. -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 11:07:16 DB and Cascade are hopelessly incompatible, so I think Celeste is the only option -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 11:40:27 I've only leveled two characters, but I guess Celeste is safe. I thought that if Adras activated Perfection with Blade Arts Parry, it would be insurance, but it didn't work. I can't say for sure until I try to refine it a little more, but I feel that Celeste's Reate will greatly benefit DBs who rely on gauge techniques. Flawless is difficult to use because there is no charge PA, It's easy to accumulate the down value, which is a condition for Echo. -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 12:20:15 If you also accumulate G-Kar properly, I don't think you'll have much trouble deciding when to cut Flores -- 2025-10-04 (Sat) 05:37:27 If you use DB only, Blitz Cascade and Celeste Flores are similar in terms of trouble to activate, so I feel like Celeste is better because it has a one-shot trick called double pinion.If you use it with boots, both will be much better... -- 2025-10-04 (Sat) 00:12:13 Blitz is the same as Cascade, but Decay Bullet's ``hitting normal attack'' is also quite troublesome with DB. The reason why both are relatively good with boots and neither is good with DB is that the adjustment may have been made with DB in mind to be outstandingly strong. -- 2025-10-04 (Sat) 11:09:08 It's pretty tough that stata and dash attacks are not eligible. DB's usual lack of involvement is quite a hindrance -- 2025-10-04 (Sat) 11:48:59 The usage rate is by far the lowest, but I can only feel that it's natural. Why did you create this class when you are only concerned about the light layer? -- 2025-12-22 (Mon) 19:45:46 That's right, being left behind in the class that was the first to be renovated. There's no such thing as being transformed by Techkas -- 2025-12-22 (Mon) 23:09:27 I guess it's because it's completely changed from the old version. For better or worse, it relies on PBF, the PA behavior is straightforward, and it's too slow compared to the old Bo, which was able to perform a one-shot trick called Tech Camp Fever. I guess it incorporates EtDB-ness, but it's too quirky. -- 2025-12-22 (Mon) 23:28:46 It's good to include the EtDB element, but the parry has a lot of deterioration, so I wonder why they increased the difficulty. -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 01:24:07 I think they respect SAO Kirito, who is difficult to handle but has top firepower -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 11:19:07 As a result, I feel like it's like the bad parts of EtDB. In any case, I wish they would stop making it unusable if you fail to parry during PA.If there is an interval before using it next time, it's fine, but my vision is getting worse and worse, so I want to stop using abilities that can't be used properly unless I remember the pattern. -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 22:40:44 I don't understand why they made it impossible to parry again unlike Et. -- 2025-12-24 (Wednesday) 05:28:20 Even if the usage rate is low, it's good because it has been sitting at the top of the environment ever since the renovation. -- 2025-12-22 (Monday) 23:54:48 Unfortunately, it's already... -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 01:23:26 Even though the time is fast to achieve every deep disaster solo? -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 07:53:22 After the FiWa adjustment, it's already out of range -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 08:01:20 Last week's record Phase the Darkness had a 4 second gap on Fi and 9 seconds on Wa. -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 11:33:00 With multiplayer, Gu also increases in long range, so in a normal environment, after adjusting Gu, it feels like the firepower was a decline even though it was just slow to produce firepower. -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 11:53:05 That's correct. It went from ``the strongest class in spite of its extremely annoying and busy operations'' to ``a class that has relatively high firepower in spite of its extremely annoying and busy operations'' -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 14:14:34 That relatively high firepower is limited to opponents who can repeatedly fire counters at fairly short intervals, and to be honest, I don't feel like there's anything that can be called an advantage with no downs or downs -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 23:32:09 Even though it's in close range, PA's DPS is over, so you can rely on counters, but it depends on the enemy -- 2025-12-23 (Tue) 23:43:05 Relatively high firepower among Acorn's comparison classes other than FiWa -- 2025-12-24 (Wed) 03:02:21 If you exclude those, the other comparisons would be long-distance or support jobs, so that's true. It's better than Br or Sl because it has a down value -- 2025-12-24 (Wed) 03:49:52 Gu is also strong in multiplayer now -- 2025-12-24 (Wed) 05:27:00 Talk in your sleep -- 2025-12-24 (Wed) 16:36:59 Who are you talking about -- 2025-12-25 (Thursday) 04:04:07 I thought inflation was amazing because it fell with these specs -- 2025-12-28 (Sunday) 22:54:36 DB is mostly okay, but it's not talked about at all, and the shoes are terrible, which makes it unpopular... -- 2025-12-29 (Monday) 17:14:39 It's amazing how a romantic weapon like two-wielding and shoes could be made so unpopular -- 2025-12-29 (Mon) 17:33:30 It doesn't feel like you're fighting with two-wielding weapons because you just fly around. By the way, the standby pose when both swords are drawn is so lame that it competes with all the weapons (Personal impressions -- 2025-12-29 (Mon) 18:13:36 Despite being busy with operations, it is simply weak, the original support element has been stripped away, and even the people who liked it in the past have become a strange weapon. Shoe-kun -- 2025-12-29 (Mon) 22:00:57 The specifications of the element set for the shoes were so complex and mysterious that when they were first implemented, they couldn't even do a good job of fixing the bugs, and since it's a lawless building that keeps making updates and adjustments without knowing if the situation has been improved, it's hard to figure out how to stand on its own. I don't think it's true... Also, I think it's a big negative point that the technique that bears G'Kar's name has been changed from a romantic cannon with a strong roundhouse kick to a salvo of small balls that lacks exhilaration and has become a shackles that requires you to keep firing as soon as the gauge fills up and maintain Lapibu. -- 2025-12-29 (Mon) 22:51:54 In the first place, why don't you go back to Twin Saber? It's a stupid thing. It's Dual Blade. It was improved in Et, so I forgave it, but this is it. -- 2025-12-30 (Tue) 06:45:36 It's harsh to compare it with the recently revised version, but while Wa, which also relies on attack skills for its firepower, can now hit Unison (Marmelo Plus) repeatedly at such an outrageous pace, G'Kar is backwards compatible in everything and is too unreliable, since it is designed to use techniques in combination. Its performance has been considerably suppressed due to the combination with the engraving skills, but if you want to take advantage of it, the power will be lowered under certain conditions, but you can immediately fire a charge technique, or you can find a means of detonation other than flames, or even change the specifications themselves.The technical elements are just shackles. -- 2025-12-30 (Tue) 10:50:45 I don't think there's anything I can do about it being troublesome and difficult due to the specs.However, I would like to see a proper guarantee for single-unit performance. -- 2025-12-30 (Tue) 12:47:47 It would have been nice to use the old G'kar to detonate once the stamps were accumulated, but that doesn't even work. -- 2025-12-30 (Tue) 16:08:55 I basically agree, but is it over enough to say that it's a lot? I think the lower limit is guaranteed even if it's a low line when you can use the technique... PA also has range techniques, so both. For now, Blade Arts Parry can be reused, so I want it to be reusable, and I want the guard reception time to be increased.Personally, I would like the connect motion to be returned, so boots can be used more for fighting on their own.Rapid reinforcement, engraving, etc. -- 2025-12-30 (Tue) 19:16:22 You can't mess around with blade counters until the cancer called Paristekan is fixed. It's obvious that even a slight change will cause them to break down since they can produce extraordinary instantaneous firepower. The first thing to do is to do something about the PB firing, Geeker, and boots that have become Inten devices. -- 2025-12-31 (Wed) 00:30:01 This is the result of Mr. Expert () saying, ``It's good because it's strong for those who can use it.'' It's fine if the firepower is equal to or slightly lower than the current status, so make it impossible to parry, and instead make it possible to reactivate Arts Parry in a short time even if it fails, and increase PADPS. Make the DB easier to use. As soon as you switch shoes to weapons such as DB, the Fierce, Surging, Rapib, and Geek gauges will all disappear, completely eliminating the point of using both swords, and then increase your overall DPS by 2 to 30 places and strengthen it so that you can do it with just shoes -- 2026-01-12 (Mon) 17:01:49 Fi increases the firepower skill by 1.5 to 2 times without competing, Wa increases DPS +35 and double ignition detonation, Making it easier to activate Quince Unison Both are miscellaneous adjustments that don't take balance into account, so I think it's a little different to compare them. DBPA's DPS is in the low 400s, but if you can counter it, you can get power +500 for that number of times, and you can deal damage with pinion and weapon Aku, so I think it will be adjusted to give a power bonus effect to the power of weapon Aku and Photon Blade PP recovery rather than PA. Paliste is not a versatile item that can be used frequently because there are limited situations where it can be used, and there is a PA that must be used until the end like the Stoke T3 and Harrier, and there is also a pinion gauge to earn. The current DB itself is easy to operate, and considering the Fi and Sl, which require a severe decision on which PA to insert, I think it's still easily able to put out 3rd or 4th firepower, but I certainly wish it had a little more firepower. I don't know how to adjust the boots, but I don't think I can catch up to DB with DPS of 20-30. -- 2026-01-12 (Mon) 21:00:00 Fi's performance can only be described as abnormal, with DPS 500 just by spinning the pass without counters, limit shakes, or downs. This is the same DPS as a Harrier that uses one parry -- 2026-01-12 (Mon) 21:18:34 The counter premise is the other way around. Just increase the power of the PA -- 2026-01-12 (Mon) 22:14:13 I'm not saying it's not a useful thing, but I'm saying don't leave such crappy elements that only the top few percent can use. Flatten the performance. What are you doing in a game that only cares about the casual audience? Bouncer -- 2026-01-12 (Mon) 22:15:51 I don't think it's okay to be so red-faced just because you can't play Paliste lol -- 2026-01-13 (Tue) 13:55:15 I'll do it. People who can't do it should be discarded. That's why it's in the highest usage rate, and it's an unpopular class that's holding back NGS. -- 2026-01-13 (Tue) 14:05:47 Paliste isn't that high-tech or anything. You can easily do it by choosing an attack, and no matter how good you are, you can't do it unless you choose an attack. It's much more difficult to balance it with boots than that. And even if you overcome that, it's still weak, so the usage rate is bound to be low -- 2026-01-13 (Tue) 14:16:06 Isn't there a problem even if it has the lowest usage rate? There will definitely be a usage hierarchy, and even if casual players shy away from the controls and behavior, there are other classes that can accommodate them. I can still understand if you want the firepower to be increased because there is no return on the firepower for the amount of operation and difficulty. -- 2026-01-18 (Sun) 18:36:42 I'm talking about how much attention is paid to balance adjustment in FF14, which is an overwhelmingly superior competitor. Arts parry is not a particularly high-performance guard action, but adding a step is not necessary for me and many other people who don't choose Bo, so please delete it. For now, just make the Marupon premise completely meaningless and impossible for both Blade and Boots and stand on their own. -- 2026-01-30 (Fri) 20:38:45 How can JB alone generate firepower? No matter how hard I tried, I couldn't reach 30,000, so I was starting to break down -- 2026-01-18 (Sun) 16:19:26 If you want to get more firepower, the best way is to use it as a DB sub, but if you don't care about firepower, you can use whatever weapon you want. -- 2026-01-18 (Sun) 18:11:42 It would be nice if DB abolished the cancer cells called Paliste and made Parry usable again even if it was a scar like the old country EtDB, but I wonder when that will happen. The behavior of the shoes itself is pretty good, so I'd like something to be done about Inten, who hasn't been letting me use them properly lately. -- 2026-01-30 (Fri) 22:11:26 I'm a supporter of Paliste, so I'll ignore the topic of Paliste and talk about parry reuse, but it's an action game that improves the accuracy of counters, and even if a parry fails, you can follow up with a stealth counter, so I think adjusting to make it possible to reuse parries is a low priority. I think it's only natural that there should be such a risk since it's a weapon that allows you to counter without interrupting PA activation. Some people have asked for parry reuse, but will it fail that much? That's what I always think. Parry's receptionist picks things up pretty well, but... Maybe he throws away parries and always aims for the fastest weapon can before he can judge whether an attack is coming or not? If that's the case, I can't say it's my fault. -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 01:17:20 In any case, I am keenly aware that what is needed now is more firepower than ease of operation. Fi when it goes down, It's frustrating to be targeted by Wa. -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 01:33:02 The reason NGS defends Pariste, which is an element that cuts off the Kaju layer that is important even if it is used as nutrition for advanced players, is because ``I feel good because I can use it well.'' Surprisingly, there is no reason. That being said, I was able to prioritize it a long time ago. Why is it degenerating with NGS? It's a joke, so this is also unjustified. Get it back as soon as possible. Games that adapt to good players will just die. -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 02:00:55 Paliste is based on the assumption that it will be used like Ra's WB, so the DPS of PA and the power of actions other than counters are modest -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 02:15:20 90% of the reasons for whiffing on a parry are ``it looked like it was going to hit, but it didn't hit'', so it's double the fault of ``not following the old specifications and the enemy's attack judgment being messed up'' -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 11:03:36 No, no matter how you think about the former, it's the player's fault. The basis for the judgment that it is bad is only subjective, and there is no rule that says you have to follow the old specifications. If they could make some adjustments, I think it would be due to a lack of firepower during normal times, and the most they could do would be to ease the PA cancellation timing. (Well, JB should be adjusted with the highest priority, but I don't know how to save that weapon anymore...) -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 12:29:42 Due to the structure of DB, not having to interrupt the PA is not a strength but a prerequisite, so not being able to reuse parries doesn't add depth to the action, it's just a stress factor, so all I can do is quickly return to the old specifications. It has been said many times since the early days of implementation that there is nothing you can do with just firepower, and there is no need to dwell on the current unpopularity and poor operability of NGS. -- 2026-01-31 (Sat) 15:28:17 Reusing parries doesn't add depth to the action, and personally I think parry failure → follow-up with a step is still more action. I think Bo's two pressing issues are 1: Complicated controls and 2: Lack of firepower (even if you do that, it's possible), but if you improve only 1 and leave 2, it's too uninteresting as a class, and in the first place, no matter how you improve 1, you can't beat other classes no matter how you improve the class design. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 13:54:19 EtDB was extremely popular. Isn't this the answer? -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 14:19:15 EtDB was well received. But NGS BoDB was not available at that time. In other words, the situation is different now than it was then. If EtDB is the answer, then the answer is to reproduce EtDB with a new class -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 16:59:36 First of all, I doubt whether it's true that EtDB was popular, and even if that were true, it probably wasn't popular because Parry could be reused. Also, in the first place, as Ogi said, there are almost no opportunities to have trouble with not being able to reuse it, and I honestly don't think it's a good idea to let the system follow what you can do with practice -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 17:07:19 Seriously, I don't know why you assume that only one of the complexity and firepower will be improved, but wouldn't it be normal to try both? If you're saying that easy firepower weapons are no good, then that's just not the case with today's popular weapons. Things that used to be done in the past have deteriorated and can no longer be done, which is more of a psychological stressor than just the system, and there's no need to put restrictions on it, which is why we've continued to be criticized for it. Above all, it's theoretically possible, so there's no problem with DB, which has the attitude that it's a complete weapon, and the current situation is the result of not being properly improved. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 18:44:35 In action games, the feel of control is important, and each individual has their own likes and dislikes. If it's clearly unpleasant and affects the progress of the game, it should be fixed. However, the current specifications of DB's parry and stealth control are not like that. If there are people like the tree owners who don't like it, there are also people who think the current situation is fine. If you really want to change it, wouldn't it be better to soften it in a way that doesn't change the usability by slightly increasing parry reception time and power? -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 19:19:50 You're missing the point when you say that the action has more depth. ``Just make it easier to use.'' EtDB was able to be reused, so why can't it be reused with N? I don't know what you're saying. Regardless of whether EtDB is well received or not, there were far fewer complaints than NGSBoDB. You can understand that by just comparing them -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 19:36:55 Well, the comfort and exhilaration of EtDB and NGSBoDB are completely different, but is it airp...? Paliste defenders ≒ Those who are satisfied with the current DB are denying that they want it to be easier to use and remove unnecessary elements for advanced users, so they won't understand. As an expert, I can use it to my satisfaction, so you small fry should just shut up. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 19:40:52 If you really want to make it easier to use, I think it would be fine if you made it a sub-Hu or Wa and changed EXOP to Kipusho Pay, since casual users can do it with just the click of a button without any problems. It's a bad idea for an action game to remove the specs that experts like from there -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 19:57:44 After being defeated, let's stealth! will be able to parry normally! Why would anyone be against it if it were just changed to ``Parry!'' -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 20:02:22 Continuous parry = I am amazing at parrying without failure! ! Oops, I failed and the follow-up was great! ! I think that sense of accomplishment is extremely important in action games. Well, it might be possible to take a relief measure for casual players by trading off skills so that they can parry continuously based on the amount of SP consumed -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 20:10:13 Eda 11 If there really isn't a trade-off between firepower and risk of failure, no one would object. There are many people who think that this is not the case, which is why there are opposing opinions, and unless you can prove that it is compatible, the people who are currently using it regularly will not be convinced. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 20:39:05 There is no need to convince all the opponents of relaxation, and I don't understand that there are many opponents. It's rough every time and I'm repeatedly cutting down trees without permission -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 22:22:25 There aren't many people looking for that sense of accomplishment, so it's an extremely unpopular class -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 22:48:30 I have been able to use DB for a long time, so it's not a problem, and there are people who want to watch the small fry without talking.In the end, the management decided that there was nothing they could do about it, and the only big thing was a garbage weapon that decided to renew it.And even though it was renewed, it still doesn't work, so I want another voice. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 22:56:43 The main premise is that the class is by far the lowest in terms of weapon popularity, so why don't you look at that directly?It's a high-tempo action game that has been praised to a certain extent, and most players think it's not fun to use.I think it's safe to say that it's a failure. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 23:45:55 It's not that it's fun or that you can use it, it's just that it's weak. SL, which was very popular, now has a usage rate like garbage -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 23:57:39 First of all, if it is true that the class is by far the lowest in popularity of weapons, then you should present the data, but even if that were true, the reason why it is less popular is not because it is not fun, but because it is simply weak...I won't go so far as to say that it is because there are other classes with high firepower that are easy to use. Also, I sometimes see people saying they don't use DB because the stance is lame. -- 2026-02-01 (Sun) 23:58:32 The source with the lowest usage rate is the material announced by the management at the Re-Aibe venue that is currently being held. The top three usage rates are Ra, Hu, and Fo, with usage rates ranging from 15 to 13%. The worst 2 is 7% Sl, 5% Bo, and the rest are 8-9%. Well, it is undeniable that ease of use has an impact on the usage rate. Wa and Fi, which are the top two strongest, have lower usage rates. So, will the usage rate increase just by looking at the top 3 usage rates and making unlimited parries? That question. I think the fundamental low usage rate of Bo is due to the difficulty in understanding PA behavior. There are enthusiasts who say the current specifications are good, and there are other classes for the casual class, so I wonder if it's necessary to sacrifice them to flatten the usage rate for the sake of the caste. I understand if you mean messing with the boots -- 2026-02-02 (Mon) 04:57:07 The reason why the usage rate is so low despite having the †dual-wielding† that otakus love is simply because it looks lame and it's a boring job to use. On the other hand, when Katana was extremely weak, it is said that it had the highest usage rate at that time -- 2026-02-02 (Mon) 17:06:13 ↑↑ I have no objection to the analysis that ease of use affects usage rate, but even if there is a JB with easy-to-understand PA behavior, it is unpopular, so I think strength is as important a factor as ease of use. Regardless of parry reuse, if you take away the adrenaline element of an expert like Pariste, even this 5% will be wiped out -- 2026-02-02 (Mon) 21:00:39 JB has an element set that is completely difficult to understand, and PA is not particularly easy to understand. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 00:01:12 Besides the shoes, the bow has become complicated to operate due to NGS, and is probably a poor lottery ticket that has been weakened greatly. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 00:27:27 I was in last place, 2% behind Sl, who was in second place. Even if you look at it from a multi-faceted perspective, it's just that it's a failure due to the double punch of being difficult to use for all classes and also not being strong... I don't want all the experts here to die out, but it's definitely better to make it easier to approach and use it and expand the range. If the range of play expands to light players, the lifespan of games will be extended -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 07:02:38 I agree with the idea that if the range of play extends to light players, the lifespan of games will also be extended. But that has nothing to do with Paris. First of all, the light layer will be repelled by the behavior and control of the Bo2 weapon type PA -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 07:34:58 That's right lol. The light layer will be happy if the limit on the number of times Parry can be used is removed, and if Pariste, which can only be used by experts, is removed, "Oh, it's okay if it's that difficult to operate", it's a simple story. As you said, it's probably part of poor behavior and control. Anyway, aside from parrying, why are you so stubborn that you don't even want to ease the number of parries? He's already the enemy of all regular bouncers -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 07:39:43 I guess what he's looking for is different from someone who is dissatisfied with the lack of firepower after doing something with someone who isn't sure about parrying. If the parry can be reused in 0.6 seconds in the old Et, I don't think it will affect people who are using the fastest weapon Aku Cancel, but I would like to see more firepower than adding more training wheels, so it would be nice if they could also make adjustments to increase the firepower at the same time -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 08:46:49 Everyone would like to see an increase in firepower, right? The current DB is in a state of giving away this and that, so there was no need to fight from the beginning, so go ahead and have fun -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 14:15:12 Even advanced players don't use it much in actual battles, since the attacks that can be done before it's difficult are limited. Even if you can't do it, there's no problem; it's a charm technique, so to speak, but there's something wrong with thinking that if you can't do it, Bo can't do it. Also, while he says he wants to increase the number of lights and increase the population, he contradicts himself by saying things like the experts should die out, and to be honest, he just hates the experts. It is out of the question to waste the efforts of those who have practiced and become good at something because of such a jealous person. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 18:05:40 After all, it is the cancer itself that is shackling adjustments. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 19:33:39 Summarizing the debates so far, the best option is not to abolish Pariste, it is possible to reuse parries, and instead of downwardly adjusting the power of the step counter, the overall power is upwardly adjusted. I wonder what it is. This should make most people happy, including amateurs who don't know much about it, and experts who want more DPS who want to do difficult actions. For some reason, I'm sure the worst part is that Paliste's damage source ratio is high. The safest answer is "If you can parry, your DPS will increase by a few percent!" -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 19:47:27 Even now, it only increases by a few percent -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 20:04:32 Wouldn't it be better to implement a skill to switch the parry specifications? If you don't shake it, it will stay as it is now. If you swing it, you can parry as many times as you like without any restrictions during PA, but the parry's firepower is 0 and it's only for defense. With this, both experts and light users will have no complaints. Pariste can stay as it is -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 21:17:51 It's amazing that you don't even understand that there's no point in using something like zero power. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 22:01:49 I was saved because the person directly under me told me that I don't need such a light-hearted person who works hard and is good at manipulating people and acts like I'm superior because it's nothing but cancer. Again, the current DB is weak, so there is no need to adjust it by lowering it instead of increasing it. Please raise them all -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 22:28:17 For some reason, people think that Pariste is cancer, but even with Pariste, they are weak. -- 2026-02-03 (Tue) 23:21:43 At least they are better than the cancer cells that do nothing but drag down others by saying things like "I can't do it, so get rid of Pariste!" Even if Paliste remains, it won't be a disadvantage for beginners, but being able to eliminate Paliste is clearly a disadvantage. -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 01:27:43 In the first place, Paliste is only used to strengthen the opponent Aegis. The only reason for that was that Pheasant's ability to provide instantaneous firepower when it was a turn-based attack and could only hit for a moment, including continuous hits, was strong. Bo was the strongest in Enhanced Dallion, but he hardly uses Paliste. He was only strong because his counter firepower against opponents with a lot of moves was the strongest, and his other skills were also strong overall. -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 01:52:48 By the way, now that Fi and Wa have become meaningless and broken firepower, it goes without saying that he is a relative minnow as a melee and pure DPS job. -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 01:55:01 Why only a small part of it is used + Difficult to operate + The light layer doesn't touch it It's a cancer that would be better for the world if it were erased Worst case, it doesn't have to be erased, but I need to increase the basic power of PA so that the meaning of using it is lost even more. First of all, in this day and age, you can finish a Harrier with around 400 DPS... -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 02:21:10 The story is completely different, but it's also necessary to fly PB before PA. Gansura's Pursuit is also complicated, but I wish it would fire automatically when using PA -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 02:22:34 ↑What era of Bo are you talking about? Weapon Aku absolutely requires movement, so if you use it in vain, the DPS will drop, and if it's in FB, it will fire automatically in conjunction with PA -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 05:49:22 Isn't there a need for the light layer to touch it? There are also 9 other classes, right? I think I should leave it to them. Instead of making it simple and boring, it would be better to make it more suitable for experts and graduates. Every time a parry is successful, the power of the currently running PA increases by 50% until the run is completed -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 06:58:50 I don't think it will become boring with the removal of the parry limit -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 08:33:45 For the time being, it's funny to see the person who keeps calling out Pariste for getting rid of it because he has cancer saying that techniques that can no longer be used like skipping a PB in front of the PA are essential, and pointing out the current Bo Airp. Well, there's no way you're correctly grasping the current usefulness of Pariste -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 10:52:27 Is this an acrobatic defense that wants to degrade the quality of Pariste defenders who pretends to belittle those who deny Pariste? There are people who understand the properties of Pariste and use it, but don't know about PB Can! ? -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 15:28:14 The reason why I don't use Stoke T3 non-derivative continuously and the reason why I can't use Blitz is because of PB Can -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 15:31:01 As soon as I get hit by the figure star, I repeatedly hit the report. -- 2026-02-04 (Wednesday) 17:13:53 I have no idea what it has to do with Pariste -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 17:47:03 Personally, I don't care if Pariste is deleted or left, but the idea that it's the cause of Bo's weakness and usage rate is way off base. It's been said a lot, but such things are only used in limited situations and the impact is extremely low -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 17:53:17 Blade flying back then wasn't really an essential technique. If you assume that the game is too difficult to play, and come up with a list of misplaced reasons, and then get criticized for it, you'll think that the experts are rejecting the lights, or that you're just being paranoid -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 18:05:14 Personally, Bo's cancer is designed to have 100% firepower in combination with the shoes. It's not enough to take advantage of the actions of each weapon like Hu and Fi, but you have to alternate between using both gauge techniques and PA, especially the behavior of Fierce, which is the main force of Boots, is extremely shitty. By the way, the mysterious ritual called element set -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 18:05:40 If the limit on the number of parries is removed, the sense of accomplishment will disappear and it will become boring. The good thing is that you can parry as long as you keep succeeding. In the first place, the parry failed at that point because the timing was wrong, It's a mistake -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 22:33:51? Now you don't have to fly the blade even during fever? It was so bad that I didn't understand because it's been over a year since Bo retired. In any case, Paliste has cancer, and the opposition to removing the limit on the number of parries is meaningless. What's the sense of accomplishment? -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 00:14:35 Was it a mysterious ritual in which weapon activation was performed between PAs? Some serious players used to do this, but I think the DPS would be higher if you used regular stalk attacks. Paliste is an air, an air. Some people think that Pariste is cancerous, but that's not the case at all.In the first place, almost all PAs have long motions and are extremely weak if they stop midway through, so it really doesn't have much of an effect on anything other than Aegis (in the first place, only a small number of attacks are compatible with it). I've said it many times, but it's really the shoes that are cancerous -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 01:36:48 Those who can use both swords were second only to Hu until the enhanced Wael before the FiWaGu enhancement. I gave up on it because it was too sluggish, but when it comes to emergency reinforcement Dallion, it was close to the strongest even with DB adhesive.I used Pariste with spinning attacks and 5-punch punches, but the attack duration is extremely long, so it's no different from using Paristetsu or other jobs after the judgment disappears with Garkan. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 01:45:02 If you're going to say that the removal of parry restrictions gives me a sense of accomplishment, then it wouldn't be fair unless I also complain about Quince, who doesn't have Wa's weapons. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 01:56:17 Wa and Fi are in such a lawless state, so why does Bo have to continue to carry the burden on his back for the sense of accomplishment () of a few idiots? -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 02:26:34 It's good to remove parry restrictions, but saying we should get rid of parrying is the exact opposite of saying we should make operability worse and reduce what we can do. The only way to eliminate Pariste in terms of the specifications is to make the parry recovery longer. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 02:47:46 It's fine if you can do Pariste separately, but if you do it, DPS will remain the same or even decrease, and you can recover PP. I don't think so. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 02:56:46 If you're still in a fever, nothing will change dramatically if that happens -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 03:06:51 In that case, ideally it would be more like ``There's no particular point, but if you want to do it, go ahead.'' -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 03:35:37 Why don't you want Pariste to be crushed by screaming so much? Are you too desperate? It's a curse that the glitch technique that the official has just given up on fixing and is being tolerated should be deleted. What I'm doing is no different from the old WB Gracan or finger snaps. There's no problem even if the counter-related firepower is increased by quickly disabling it, and the strange simultaneous input techniques disappear and the others become easier to access. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 04:10:12 Even if that happens, it won't solve anything about Bo's strength or usage rate -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 04:10:41 Why do you want to go to that extent and eliminate Pariste? Were your parents killed too? What's the glitch? Parry is just a guard counter with an extremely short motion, so depending on how long the enemy's attack judgment lasts, you can do the same thing with a katana, but someone at a level who doesn't understand the mechanics of parry or practical DPS at all is just yelling at the image -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 04:14:29 By the way, the DPS is almost the same if you interrupt Stoke T3 in the first half, send out Paliste once, and hit with a suitable PA for 1 second, and if you only parry and use Stoke T3. There is almost no point in using Paliste unless you are in a situation where you can attack repeatedly without limit. And there are almost no such situations. Do you think that for the price of such a small trick, you can increase the firepower enough to change something? -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 04:20:13 In the first place, if you are not able to use Pariste level to such an extent that you are desperate, you will definitely not be able to use Bo as a perverted class even without Pariste, so you should give up and try another class. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 04:49:13 Well, in the end, this story comes down to just increasing the firepower with the current specifications. This is because the return (firepower) for the amount of operation and difficulty level has become relatively low due to the reinforcement of other classes. I want it to be as strong as it is, I don't want it to become a stronger class by changing its behavior -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 07:16:00 That's right. In the first place, the people who are saying to delete Pariste don't use Bo themselves, so I hope they don't say anything. -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 08:03:23 Don't say it yourself, it's a pervert class. That's not a compliment at all, it's just a failure. No one can deny it because the actual usage rate is shown in numerical data. That's why I'm talking about needing a little more adjustment, but Maiona's stubborn father is in trouble -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 09:08:58 Well, Uncle Paliste keeps making noise, so I'll leave Paliste alone, but at least with boots and set operation, it's finally 100% performance - If you fail after one parry, it's over - Firepower is low There's no point in talking unless you change these three points. I'm a man right now, so don't make me stronger! ! ! I don't see that kind of Gaigai Ondo on any other page... -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 09:10:45 I'm satisfied with it now, so I don't see anyone saying that I shouldn't strengthen it. Get rid of the actions that I can't master! ! -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 10:06:14 There are only people who are shouting, defending themselves, reporting battles, cursing each other without any substance, and they quickly forget what they wrote, and there is no conversation -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 10:19:04 If the parry fails, it's over, and you can just cancel it with a step. Even for other classes, if the counter fails, there is a risk of being stiffed and interrupting the attack, right? Well, it doesn't matter whether there is a limit on the number of parries or not, but in the end, it's just a call based on emotion and no logic whatsoever -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 10:20:25 It was possible to do it with EtDB, but it's no longer possible with NGS, but the people who don't need it are just shouting emotional theories and have no reason or reason, right? -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 11:01:40 Even if you bring up the old story that even if it's a different class in NGS, the enemy behavior and class balance are essentially different games, EtDB is different from the design because it's not a counter, it's just an attack. That said, I don't think Bo would be completely destroyed if that were to happen, and I wouldn't mind it at all. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 11:08:19 There's nothing convincing about trying to make it a problem that is directly connected to usage rate and strength, and the same goes for Paliste. I know because I actually use it, but it really doesn't matter -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 11:14:13 You're absolutely right, Airp! That's a refreshingly emotional argument -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 11:22:55 It's better than someone like you who only gives meaningless agitation by just stating the reason -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 11:26:28 Unlimited number of parries, single weapon, and a DB with high firepower can easily destroy the balance. I'm sure if such a class existed, the usage rate would be high, but it would be either the firepower or the behavior -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 11:45:06 I don't think so, so I just keep repeating that I'm right and you're wrong, and I haven't given any reason. -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 11:49:11 I wrote about the performance and frequency of use of Pariste, why there is a limit on the number of parries, and the difference from EtDB? By the way, Et's firepower was also low -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 11:54:07 ↑↑↑This is it. Et Regards, It's better to have a high firepower job for experts than to be an easy-to-understand low firepower job. In the first place, when the firepower is low, you need extra PS to produce the same firepower, so it's not easy at all when the firepower is low -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 12:11:21 I'm not denying or confirming it in the first place. No matter how far I think this way, it's just an expression of my own opinion. Both those who do something about the current situation and those who maintain the status quo and don't have to do anything will continue to argue that their lives will be spent forever. The only truth officially announced is that it has "lowest usage rate" -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 12:44:42 Since Paliste is in its current state, Paliste is not strong enough to lower other firepower, and even if the parry limit is removed, there is no need to lower the firepower, so all you have to do is increase the firepower and remove the parry limit. If the parry fails, adding a cooldown time of 0.5 to 1 second is enough to take the risk. -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 12:45:41 Well, if there are more things that can be done and the firepower increases, there's no reason to judge -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 13:01:16 I understand that there are arguments over other factors because both sides have their own opinions. It's amazing that there were some crazy people who were vehemently against even a normal adjustment that would please everyone, such as eliminating the limit on the number of parries (no one said we shouldn't increase the firepower in exchange).It looks like we'll finally be able to get something done. -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 15:17:49 No, it's not like there's no room for compromise, but I'm generally opposed to it, right? ① Since risk and return are basically in a proportional relationship (though there are quite a few adjustments that make you wonder why such a low risk and high return is allowed), there is a concern that actions that lower risk will lower return (firepower). ② They claimed that the reason was to acquire new players, but the removal of the limit on the number of parries cannot be expected to have an effect on acquiring new players. → ②, that there is no effect on new acquisitions, is just a prediction without evidence, but the fact that those in favor of it will definitely attract new customers is just a prediction without evidence, so it offsets that. Regarding ①, there is an argument that there is no guarantee that the firepower will be lowered if the limit on the number of parries is removed, and this is actually true, but I cannot dispel the concern that if it is strengthened in the future, the original increase of 100 will be reduced to 90. →On the other hand, if you want to be more considerate to newcomers than to seniors, there is room for compromise, but if you feel like it is natural for seniors to give in, then I will firmly oppose it. By the way, the reason for being able to do it with Et is as valid as the opposition's sense of accomplishment, so it's not worth considering. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 18:51:40 As I said myself, if you make a good decision, the firepower increases a little and makes you feel good, so the possibility of parrying and continuous parrying has become a boomerang. The development team here doesn't really think about balancing risk and return, so something that would normally go up by 100 won't go down to 90. The history of NGS has proven that it can be released in poor condition and left for many years without any special adjustments. -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 20:08:15 The core of the discussion is not whether the risk-return is balanced, but that the risk-return is proportional. If risk and return were completely different, it would be possible for counters to have lower firepower than regular PAs that always hit a fixed point, or for long-range, wide-range attacks to have higher firepower than short-range attacks that require close contact, but that is not the case. -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 21:00:03 I'm a pain in the ass, so I just agreed to do whatever it takes to increase my firepower. In the first place, I don't even think that limiting the number of parries is a big risk, because if you fail, you can just get a stealth attack -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 21:34:46 I'm still against Gone Gone, lol -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 23:14:41 This tree itself is a threat to Bo's current situation, but it's a power word to say that he's against Gone Gone lol -- 2026-02-05 (Thursday) 23:56:33 Do you think that if you get consent here, the management will adjust accordingly? -- 2026-02-06 (Friday) 00:13:38 This is for the one person who is stubbornly opposed to relaxing the number of parries, so it doesn't matter that it's a dead tree, no matter how much you BL it, it's useless -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 06:41:22 The specification was already changed in the past to eliminate the number of parries so that parries can be parried as many times as you want as long as you succeed. What's being said here now is just being polite, but in reality, it's being rejected because "please make sure I don't fail the parry" -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 06:49:09 It seems like there's at least one other person besides me, but aren't they just being BL'd because they're constantly calling out things like "ki◯guy" and "gaigai" and posting empty trolls? This guy is already a troll -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 06:51:24 All the classes this guy lists in the tree below are comment sections where he ran rampant himself, so it's just a habitual troll -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 07:57:24 How can you come up with a different interpretation of "Please make sure I don't fail parry"...? -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 14:44:03 I finally lost my temper and turned my head into aluminum foil. Every page of bofislfote talks about how much of a hard worker I thought he was. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 14:45:20 It's a different interpretation that if you fail to parry first, it's over. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 17:36:21 Even though the only reason why you can't parry at the moment is "the failure of the previous parry", Also, being able to parry means making that failure never happen. So, I think. Isn't this tree owner aware of the current specification, which has been revised so that parries can be re-parried within the same PA as long as parries continue to be successful? -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 19:00:43 If you make the pinion's DPS around 900 and parry can't be reused as it is now, but if you succeed, you can reuse the pinion, then you can shoot as much as you want like Wa's Unison, right? That's fine. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 19:35:22 You keep talking about making it the same spec as EtDB Parry, Grandpa -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 21:50:54 And then you go back to Ogi -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 22:50:48 I've never seen a game where annoying complainers make such big faces about not choosing from what's given to them and modifying it to their liking. -- 2026-02-07 (Fri) 23:25:37 The original Kogi is an arsonist who looks over his head and shows off his fighting spirit, and he keeps pouring gasoline on himself, so it's become a big tree like this... -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 01:05:39 Gudagdugdagda Those who say it's fine as it is are derailing the simple story of saying that back in EtDB, you could parry as many times as you want, so you want it back. In the first place, it's a game that has a request form and asks you to submit your requests over and over again, and it's a problem because you end up talking about complaints and how the management is the right guy. Every class has a lot of complaints, and they've been sent to the management, and as a result, they've become stronger. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 01:39:24 Wanting it to have the same specs as other classes in other works in the past is far from simple or absurd. In any case, there's no point in trying here if you can't get consent, so please tell the management -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 03:12:20 Don't you know that N-DB is a system that has been transplanted from EtDB with quite a few elements in the first place...? ? ? ? However, for some reason, the number of parries has been reduced, which is a mysterious situation -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 04:17:55 There's no way that agreement or consensus can be reached just by one or two people on both sides talking to each other endlessly, Azerbaijan. Well, I'm pretending that I have consent -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 04:25:17 In the first place, even if I can get consent from so many people that I can count on one hand, there is no point in it -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 04:56:51 Because of this, none of the pages here will be constructive. The request has already been sent to the management, and everyone else is just chatting -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 11:02:06 It's been said a lot, but it wouldn't be strange if NGSBo, which inherited only half of the EtDB elements, had no limit on the number of parries. If you start saying that, you'll end up saying that it's strange that NGS doesn't have a special move that consumes half a gauge that corresponds to Connect, so there's no end to it. Also, I don't know the pros or cons of this, but if it were to become reusable, in a melee situation where you don't know exactly where the attack will come from, it would be best to press the weapon action button periodically while the PA is on, aiming for a parry, but I wonder what that would mean? -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 14:55:53 I wonder what it is, if that is the optimal solution, is there something wrong with it? Those who have irrational concerns about the fact that it has not been implemented are the same as those traitors who are against the anti-espionage law, which has not yet been enacted, because it will lead to false arrests and abuse. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:22:02 In fact, in Etoile's parry, that request parry was always possible, but it was never used that way, it has never been talked about, and I think it is pointless. Also, if you can connect, I would like it normally -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:51:05 No parry → Parry only once → Counter only once → It took more than 2 years to get from pinion addition to counter multiple times, and it's been stagnant for 2 years since it's a distorted monster -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 19:11:43 That being said, Rod Partitaris hasn't changed since the beginning, and it doesn't have a counter. If you want to fix it, this should be your priority. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:06:25 Over there, the foundation has been completed to some extent, and other elements are mainly being renovated and added, so it's a good time. DB improvements always focus on weapon abilities, and no other elements have been added. No matter how you look at it, it's obvious that EtDB has been cut into pieces and distributed in small quantities, which is hopeless. It's not like they're introducing new elements that have nothing to do with the old stuff. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:49:24 When I came to see it for the first time in a while, a big tree grew and it was amazing. To be honest, it would be nice if we could make some miscellaneous adjustments like Fi or Wa. Counters are not the main focus of both, so it's a win-win for both supporters and opponents, right? -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 19:18:10 I think so too, but I guess that's because there are people who don't like getting stronger in a simple way -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 01:42:19 Well, in reality, Bo has already been renewed, so even if it gets strengthened, it will only be a rough increase in firepower -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 03:37:04 Everyone talks about how powerful they are, but unlike other MMOs, this game doesn't require that much strength. Although there are pros and cons for each quest. I wonder if there are a lot of TAs -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 22:45:46 It's not limited to bouncers. If you remember the Force, Gunner, and Tector pages when they were weaker, you'll understand right away, right? It's natural for this to happen if the class you're using is too weak or misused -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 23:15:40 In the first place, it's not weak compared to Br or Sl. If we were to look at the usage rate like the tree above, it would mean that Fi and Wa are still not enough. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 00:11:58 The problem is that the performance is only this level with the highest operational complexity among all the jobs, so relative evaluation is meaningless... -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 05:42:48 All jobs are overloaded, the operational burden on Bo is moderate at best, and he can move calmly so he can respond flexibly.If Fi and Sl are to be improved, they have to change the attacks they insert more severely, so until the miscellaneous adjustments made in August last year, I felt sorry for FiSl -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 10:47:27 Each has a different vector of difficulty in operation, but I think Bo>Fi>Sl is the top 3 in terms of control complexity.Fi is probably difficult in a world where you want to reach perfection in a high-decimal point world -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 14:43:02 Unlike MMOs, battles are really handled using the mechanism of an action game, so I think it's because strength is influenced by the player's control skills more than the character's performance. That's why when it comes to discussing battles, whether you're a high-ranking or a low-ranking player, unless you have the same skills, you won't be able to get through to each other. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 06:37:10 I think it would be better to just give up on him and forget about him instead of getting stressed out about being weak, but Bo's love is strong. Well, is that a good thing? That's cool, Bo -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 07:32:12 No, the coolness is over... -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 14:46:45 It doesn't really meet the demand for someone who wants to cut things down with two swords instead of swinging around a blade launcher, DB... I wonder if it would be better if it were a skill that drastically changes the PA performance (significantly reduces the number of hits and reach + increases the power and PP efficiency) so that the blade does not fly away for a certain period of time and is combined with the sword body and swings around. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 16:46:00 It's a flying sword, so the concept of the sword flying is true. The stereotype of wielding two swords should be abandoned. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 17:13:08 The word flying sword was also introduced in PSO2. In the days of PSO and PSU, they attacked directly. -- 2026-02-06 (Fri) 21:53:51 I wish they would stop using the mysterious flying sword. PSO was a normal dual wielder, but PSU was better... -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 01:41:38 As long as it's strong, it doesn't matter if it's Ankoku Bon Odori or Conductor. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:22:56 Well, if it's actually as strong as Ankoku Bon Odori (if you compare it to NGS, you can use a DPS 1250 PA on a regular basis), I'd understand to some extent... -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:48:05 It's a bug that the power of Dark Bon Dance is 1250%, even though the power of the super martial art Mitsunori is only 600%. -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 04:54:29 In the first place, my request was not to impose the strongest bouncer that I thought of, but to make it stronger since it is weaker than other classes, so parrying and such are irrelevant. If you want to do EtDB that much, you can do it anytime if you go to the old country, so you should do it. I want NGS bouncer to be stronger, not Etoile. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:28:45 Should I reconnect it to the tree above? Also, no one said they wanted to use EtDB, so even though the specs of Pari are exactly the same as EtDB, it's a degraded version that can't be reused, so I'm just asking them to fix that. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 15:45:59 Either is fine as long as you make it stronger. On the other hand, if you fix it, it won't immediately become stronger. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 17:22:38 "It can't be reused only when parry fails" Instead, it has the highest DPS of all weapons and is a surefire counter, so it's a mistake to say "It's exactly the same as EtDB" which just bounces attacks -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:39:31 Is DPS2727 a real thing? I mean, now that it's reusable, it's finally on line with FiWa, right? -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:48:20 It's just an insurance policy in case you fail when you make it reusable, and the upper limit won't go up, so it won't line up at all. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:53:28 All I can do is roughly make it stronger. -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 20:59:22 In other words, what the people who have been going wild lately are saying is that they don't feel like learning the enemy's movements, so let them deal with it by hitting them repeatedly. I guess that's what you mean -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 22:48:04 Eda 6 is the culprit of the liar who is fighting around here and there, sprinkling oil and setting fires -- 2026-02-07 (Sat) 23:04:00 He's been acting violently for a while now, but he's just being sarcastic. He's not even arguing, he's just playing sarcastic -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 02:54:28 No, what you're saying is the opposite, so you're different from the abusive man who's been going wild the other day. Don't try to pass it on in a nice way -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 04:37:53 Eda 6-kun was talking about that before that, so now this page is full of only abusive people -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 05:25:08 Just like Otome and Life-taking, wasn't continuous parrying an element that was abolished when it became NGS due to the decline in action and game quality? However, as a result of actually doing it, Bo's long PA has the disadvantages of long motion and lack of firepower unless it is completed, so there are many inconveniences if you can only parry once. That's why I think they made it possible to reuse it, subject to success. On the other hand, if the purpose is to make it stronger, wouldn't it be appropriate to distribute the firepower closer to the front so that PA can produce high DPS in a short time? -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 07:11:31 When you think about it like that, even though Fi and Wa are like that, why is it that only Bo should be adjusted so seriously? Those two classes are too noisy -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 08:05:11 As for Wa, it's hopeless with PA visuals and behavior, symbolic images of weapon types, and an uninteresting operation feel. I wish I could forgive that. Sorry if there are people who use it because they like it -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 09:24:59 I use Wa because I'm strong, but I'm not using it because I like it, so it's okay. There are probably fewer people who like it and use it, and in this day and age, there is no need to be considerate of minorities due to anti-Japanese ideology and burial issues. -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 10:36:40 ...Wa gives up a hundred steps and is satisfied with that, but what about Fi...? It's like... it's a melee specialty... (trembling voice)...? -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 13:02:57 I can't complain if it's that strong. Even if it's difficult to use, I have no choice but to be satisfied with the performance commensurate with the difficulty of operation, and if Bo is also strengthened, it will probably be a similar miscellaneous adjustment. -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 13:26:53 I really hate the idea that ``Unpopular classes should be made stronger and balanced.'' -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 13:28:03 Isn't Fi an adjustment mistake? But since not everyone can become stronger because of the amount of operation and the difficulty of operation, I don't think it's a good idea -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 13:59:51 Well, there are people who have undergone such strange adjustments that they have to defend, so there's no need for Bo to seriously adjust good girls. Let's get greedy -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 14:17:05 There is no such thing as greed. I don't like being forced into handicap battles, so I'm naturally dissatisfied with being weak, but I don't want to be unrivaled in a strong class that would cause trouble from other classes. -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 15:10:51 In short, it's okay to be rough, so make it stronger, okay? If you ask me, OK. -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 17:24:26 Starting from RaWB and support Te, there are monsters like Wa and Fi, so there's no need to take that into consideration. It's okay to be sloppy, just make it strong and easy to use. It's not such a noble game, and NGS -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 04:50:20 Rough reinforcement means just increasing firepower without adjusting behavior. Both Wa and Fi have monster firepower, but you can guess the operability -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 14:32:17 Wa can fire a DPS 900 attack, but Bo only uses a DPS 600 attack once every 30 seconds. Even with Fi, DPS is above 1200 once every 20 seconds, and it's 130% for 30 seconds, so that's crazy. -- 2026-02-09 (Monday) 18:43:48 There's no such common sense in the word "reinforcement", and I'll give you that, and I'll give you this, too (greedy).Also, Wa isn't particularly bad in terms of operability...? Fi is specialized in melee combat, so if you get down to it, it will be difficult to operate, but -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 18:48:30 Miscellaneous adjustments are when we abandon behavior modifications and only increase firepower. As a counter, Quince has a long recast time and must be consumed before it rots, but unlike others, it is not invincible to detonation. The original parry has poor PA cancellation performance, Wolfer has too little maneuverability, and if you're planning on closing, Wa's operability is clearly worse than Fi -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 23:26:46 You can't hit with that action alone, so there's no point in just looking at DPS, right? Well, Fi is a monster with an average DPS of about 500 with just Pursuit (a little less than 70 DPS) and PA (DPS 420-450) (if you combine Limibre, Counter, PB, Defeat, etc., the average is probably close to 700. -- 2026-02-09 (Mon) 23:47:13 The ceiling of the PA firepower is in the middle of the installation stalk, and it's a little better than other classes when using Fana. -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 00:15:03 Putting aside the fact that WaFi (runner-up Gu) is strong, the problem is that Bo is in the worst state of being top-class, complicated and difficult to operate, but not strong at all, so it would be nice to have a suitable female for both.The content will be decided by the management, so just keep sending requests -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 06:42:27 Bo's operation is not complicated. PA's behavior is unique and you need to get used to it, so it's a high hurdle. PA itself is relaxed, and you have to look at the surroundings and choose a parry. The really complicated operation is something you can get used to, but it still comes with Fi and Sl (Personally, Gu follows this) -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 07:00:20 If the problem is that it's difficult but it's not strong, then it's not a problem if you increase the firepower appropriately! -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 07:12:20 I think it depends on how you manipulate the numbers. In the end, it's the result. -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 07:30:03 I think the reason why the operation of both swords Bo is complicated or not bothersome is because I like Bo so much that I'm numb to it -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 11:37:32 I mean, removing the limit on the number of parries requires less man-hours and making it significantly stronger, so it's just a matter of -- 2026-02-10 (Tue) 11:39:22 Is it a joke that the removal of the limit on the number of parries will be greatly strengthened? In most cases, the "strengthening" mentioned here should be referring to raising the ceiling, but if you think that removing the limit on the number of parries that does not affect the ceiling increase will be a significant strengthening, then you are not talking at all. -- 2026-02-11 (Wed) 13:51:53 What people are looking for differs from person to person, so it's no wonder that increasing the value drastically is the most obvious and significant enhancement that will appeal to everyone -- 2026-02-11 (Wed) 15:28:11 If you're a player who can't parry right now, be happy because if you can parry or your accuracy improves, there's potential for your firepower to increase. If you have the compassion to worry about management resources, it would be better for the management to self-strengthen at no cost -- 2026-02-11 (Wed) 18:45:51 Shoes are no different from Fi or Wa -- 2026-02-11 (Wed) 21:30:38 After a successful DB parry, I want the final Inten bullet to come out when you press the normal button on the shoes. As a bonus, Parry can be reused. -- 2026-02-12 (Thursday) 14:01:58 That's no good, that's no good, you're all bad, the management isn't bad, you feel sorry for the management.It's not worth listening to. Give me this and that, make me stronger, okay -- 2026-02-12 (Thursday) 14:39:23 This isn't just about Bo, but if they're going to flatten out the differences in equipment this much, they should also flatten out the differences in firepower between classes. Then you can play around with things like ease of use. I definitely wouldn't try to do it -- 2026-02-12 (Thursday) 15:42:12 It doesn't matter if it's solo, but in multiplayer you can't parry humanoid bosses because you keep whiffing. After that, there is nothing I can do if the timing of PA not being able to perform a steady scan coincides. I wish Adra Perfection would be applied at least -- 2026-02-13 (Fri) 01:24:29 If it is a quest with many effects and a large number of people, it will be difficult to succeed in parrying. Could you please make the reception time 0.4 seconds or something... -- 2026-02-13 (Fri) 19:43:02 It's hard to get the timing right, but it's hard when the enemy misses. Since the attack detection is weak, you don't know which ones will hit and which ones won't unless you target them -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 11:06:21 It's the same with all weapons that it's hard for the enemy to miss. DB continues to attack even if you whiff, but you are left with only a stealth attack or a bullet, and with other weapons, the DPS decreases as much as you whiff, but the trade-off is that you can attack the weapon again next time. It would be nice if it could be reused, but miscellaneous adjustments like WiFi are still required. -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 11:16:44 I am opposed to allowing unconditional reuse because it would reduce the gameplay, but I would welcome it if the reception hours were extended. Also, at the end of the PA that parries and completes the run, I want a follow-up attack with the number of successful parries x high power -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 11:30:58 ↑↑I accept the trade-off, but other classes can follow up on whiffs with Adora Perfection. Above all, I think the penalty for being hit is huge. Depending on the skill, the firepower will decrease, and if you get blown away, it's a problem...but it's also a comfort issue. Of course, increasing firepower and DPS is necessary. Even if I manage to parry them all, I don't think I can catch up with those two classes -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 13:22:12 Maybe it's okay to send a complaint regarding Adras. It would be no surprise if the same guard judgment were applied uniformly, but the program was purposely set up so that it would not be applied to the DB, so you can firmly complain that the idea is wrong. -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 14:11:34 It's written on the other page along with other examples, but Arts Parry is not treated as a weapon action just because it is activated by the weapon action button. -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 15:14:54 Honestly, is it really a trade-off that the weapon's characteristics are ruined by force majeure? There are places like that. If you use it in the field, the negative aspects will be emphasized and the stress will be relieved -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 19:33:51 DPS is only high speed and error, so you can use Harrier with SA -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 14:36:47 In fact, it starts with the argument that the inability to reuse is degrading the game experience and satisfaction, so the current needlessly difficult and difficult controls are the best feature.Amateurs should shut up, newbies are forever on the same page as the die-hard camp -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 21:47:28 Blade Arts Parry will be changed so that parries can be reused unconditionally. Blade Arts Parry Counter Edge will be changed so that a counter will occur instead of allowing the parry to be reused only if the parry is successful. This is a satisfactory solution that satisfies the delivery conditions required by both parties -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 22:03:50 No. Strength has been corrected. Adjust your requests. Adjustments include ease of operation, skill handling, etc. -- 2026-02-08 (Sun) 08:53:22 I usually use BrSl and thought I'd use it for a change of pace, but since I don't have any friends, I wanted to get your opinion on how Bouncer should be used against small fry and single enemies, respectively. Wrong page? If it is correct, I would like you to briefly explain how to use each. It may be difficult to say "easy", but I just want to hear everyone's opinions, so without getting into a fight... -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 18:03:35 If it's a boss, just do T3 Stoke → T3 Harrier. It's no exaggeration to say that there are no range techniques against small fish... -- 2026-02-14 (Sat) 18:34:58 Thank you, I wonder if it's not good at small fish, or is it safe to use it in boss main quests... -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 03:16:02 Isn't it okay to use custom sonde and custom gift for small fish? If it's medium-sized, a stalk is fine. -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 10:41:22 It's a trade-off with single firepower, but the range customization of the stalk is top class among melee -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 12:56:24 Now it's weak against small fry and bosses, so use it as you like... -- 2026-02-15 (Sun) 21:48:59 My main sword is BR, but I started using Bo's jet boots for a change of pace, and I thought I was getting used to the game by making equipment with almost the same rank as BR, so when I measured the DPS with Maska, it was completely low, which was hilarious. You really need PS to generate firepower -- 2026-03-10 (Tue) 17:21:46 Unfortunately, it's weaker than the normal training quest where you punch an octopus -- 2026-03-10 (Tue) 22:41:17 I was hoping for Bo adjustment on the same day as the Slayer adjustment, but there was no such thing -- 2026-03-31 (Tue) 17:38:55 It took me a little over two years to finally get around to it, so it's probably Bo's turn next. -- 2026-04-02 (Thursday) 01:07:36 Is it right to use the Stalk and Harrier alternately so as not to run out of surging, and use Geek and Pinion as soon as they are available, and use Intensity for knockdown? It doesn't have any firepower at all -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 20:02:39 The current Bouncer is a class that carries sadness, so let's wait for the reinforcement adjustment... -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 20:50:26 I don't know what kind of enemy you have in mind, but I think the only enemies that can fight that way are Wael or Dallion. -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 02:46:11 I'm late, but I was playing Hyagni as a sub character. It takes 4 and a half minutes for the main Fi/Sl, but if you fight this way with a sub character with almost the same equipment, it will take almost 7 minutes, so regardless of skill, it seems like the operation is wrong -- 2026-04-14 (Tue) 22:22:22 It lasted about 5 minutes just before Uze's appearance, and at that time, the strategy was ``Normal times, immediately derive T2 Pheasant'', ``During FB, alternate between T3 and Stalk, T3 Harrier'', and ``During down, if you can use Pinion or FB, use DB only, if you don't have FB or Pinion, Surge Inten''. Surging's DPS is quite low and G'kar's gauge doesn't fill up at all, so I don't think you need to use it unless you start the quest. Pheasant doesn't have a hit stop when guarding, so the more intense the attack, the more efficient it is than the Strike Combo, and it's extremely strong against "small types that don't move much and attack hard" like Agni. -- 2026-04-15 (Wed) 01:55:16 Today's DBs almost don't need shoes. I appreciate the explanations from the pros as they are helpful -- 2026-04-15 (Wednesday) 11:03:54 Shoes are almost only used for shooting PBs... On the other hand, DB is too weak for PBs, so Marupon itself is essential -- 2026-04-15 (Wednesday) 22:08:37 Is it nice to have one serious bouncer at this high difficulty level? Even though it's only the first day, it looks like the boots will give you 60,000 DPS, and they'll accelerate you down. It's usually a little weird, but this is the class to use in situations like this -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 09:09:45 The current top-tier DPS is fully loaded with LG4 and Telfir, so I can't use it as a reference -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 09:21:41 No, it's Alba, so it doesn't use any new elements. The person himself said that boots are easier to use because they have better sticking properties. Thanks to you, I've been able to cycle around stably. Well, not everyone can do the same thing, In the end, this class still needs adjustment... -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 09:41:46 FiWaSl can aim for DPS 80000, and high-difficulty Luther's resistance explodes from the second time onwards, so the total number of knockdowns does not change, so there is still no particular reason to use it. -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 23:12:56 Is that the maximum instantaneous wind speed with front-line equipment + TeRa? That's amazing -- 2026-04-09 (Thu) 23:32:16 60,000 yen with boots is amazing. I'm curious how JB can stick to an opponent with such booming arms and generate firepower -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 00:35:17 60,000 yen with Alba boots is a lie, right? No matter how I look at it, Luther doesn't seem like a good match for Shoes, do you have any videos? -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 02:39:51 It's not that I don't believe it, but it's easy to just say 80,000 or 60,000, so I'd like you to send me a tweet with a screenshot or a video. I want to learn the tricks -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 05:31:22 Just because it was 60,000 for a moment... -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 16:13:31 Is the bouncer industry too desperate lol It doesn't matter because they can't reproduce top-tier DPS anyway lol -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 18:17:20 If the top tier players can do that much damage, I know there's still room for improvement. He already has a handicap in terms of class performance, so he has to optimize his arm even more. -- 2026-04-11 (Sat) 07:18:57 Bo is a class where performance must be guaranteed in exchange for the worst operability, so he becomes overly sensitive. -- 2026-04-10 (Fri) 21:39:11 It's amazing that his weakness is suspected this much at around 60,000 yen -- 2026-04-15 (Wed) 07:00:13 If you use both swords and the firepower around you is high, you'll get about 65,000.Bo has a lack of firepower, but it's slow and heavy, and it's difficult to handle the judgment garbage like pinion, and Fierce, which has to be spread even if it's hit, is weak because it has a lot of stressful elements, so it's really over -- 2026-04-16 (Thu) 18:36:14 The ideal break at the moment is for Celeste, Binion hits as soon as the break occurs, and from AB Sturm, PA, Sturm? For Adras, Binion, Sturm, Weapon Aku, PA, Sturm? If you have room, put in Boots PB or AB. -- 2026-04-20 (Mon) 15:07:33 PBAB I don't know because at least AB is preserved, but the firepower that can be released when down is dependent on gauge techniques, so I guess that's the point.I'm curious how everyone is doing the opening with the same attack stuffing. Pheasant cumulative hit → Harrier derivative → Falcon → time stop with Stekan → Adras perfect with Stekan → activate Fana and Harrier before rain derivative → Falcon, so I'm packing it in, but if I make the timing more severe, I wonder if I can put in more -- 2026-04-21 (Tue) 01:26:34 If it's a break in a submerged state where the down return is a little slow, put pinion → G'kar → JBPB → AB → Adras Perfection and use JB weapon Aku → Bounce counter derivative → G'kar → Stoke fastest derivative or Harrier fastest derivative. Ideally, you can activate +5% power or Stalk T3 by activating Absorption before Pinion. -- 2026-05-03 (Sun) 02:43:07 I would like something to be done about the gradual increase in altitude of the DBPA and the backward movement when firing the boot PB. I want the Pheasant increase when locked on to be different between lock on and off, so I'll go back to the previous specs... I want the pinion to prioritize hitting the lock on point like the Hydra cannon, and I want it to be able to parry even during pinion, so it's a good shot no matter when I use it, or if I want to make it special for knockdowns, I want to stock up to 2 gauges, be able to adjust the activation timing by pressing the button, and add +15% damage to downed enemies. -- 2026-05-03 (Sun) 02:23:44 Well, it's better than the past Gu, so bear with it -- 2026-05-27 (Wed) 03:38:52 Everything is in the past! It's over -- 2026-05-27 (Wednesday) 05:44:07 However, is it the fault of the staff in charge of bouncers who have been outstandingly bad at adjusting for five years... -- 2026-05-27 (Wednesday) 05:46:06 Ah, No problem since I mostly use other classes -- 2026-05-31 (Sun) 22:40:35 In fact, I don't see Bo at all anywhere I go. It doesn't even exist in City. Users with dry personalities just don't need to use it, but it's fatal for the game as a game -- 2026-06-01 (Mon) 08:59:35 Even if you get all the skills related to down, the accumulated value in ES is too low and you can't get attribute down. That's a crazy adjustment. Isn't the system set the upper limit to once per second regardless of the PA combination? If so, isn't it strange that it doesn't go down at that upper limit? Even though Wondo's attributes can be properly lowered with Hogeki Explosion -- 2026-06-08 (Mon) 11:30:53 New Name: Cancel attachment Delete key: Please refrain from comments that violate public order and morals (incitement, slander, discriminatory expressions, obscene expressions, etc.). Also, line breaks are generally not recommended. Avoid unnecessary line breaks. For more information, see About the comment field. Please go to the Chat Bulletin Board for chats, the Complaint Bulletin Board for various complaints, the Consultation Bulletin Board for consultations about equipment, etc., and the official website for adjustment ideas and requests.

