
=== [Force Class Skills & Data] ===
=== REFRESH NODE: 2026-06-12 04:20:37 UTC ===
Force HTML ConvertTime 0.402 sec. Class (Add-on Skill) Hunter (Hu) Fighter (Fi) Ranger (Ra) Gunner (Gu) Force (Fo) Tector (Te) Braver (Br) Bouncer (Bo) Waker (Wa) Slayer (Sl) EX Style Adrus Blitz Celeste ▼ Open Table of Contents Table of Contents Overview Class Skill List Class Skill Details PP Convert PP Convert Increase PP Recovery Up Killing PP Gain Technique Charge PP Well Up Resterfield Fo Slow Landing Charge Fo Foie Brand Verta Blot Sondeclad Zangale Glanz Glitter Megidosphere Long Range Advantage Fo Unite Technique Fo Unite Technique PP Well Up U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo Photon Flare Force Technique Short Charge (formerly Photon Flare Short Charge) Photon Flare After PP Gain Photon Flare Short Cycle Photon Flare Extension Technique Domination Elemental Bullet Rod Technique Amplify Elemental Bullet Extend Rod Technique Keep Rod Technique PP Well Up Rod Charge Quick Move Rod Attack Impact Rod React Advance Stay PP Gain Tricky Capacitor Tricky Capacitor Quick Recharge Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Talis Bloom After PP Gain Talis Bloom Revoke Float Torchka Multilock Talis sign marking Class skills to be implemented in the future Force subclass Force EX style Force as a subclass Comments Overview The official abbreviation is Fo (Force). It can be equipped with a rod (AC) that mainly uses techniques to attack from a distance, and a tallis (PA) that changes the performance of techniques. In addition, both weapons can be used to activate complex techniques, which are great firepower skills. Along with Techter (Te) and Bouncer (Bo), this class can actively aim to lower attributes. Since the technique is a pure attribute attack, it is easier to accumulate attribute reduction values ​​than the other two classes. If the technique is an enemy's weak point attribute, the power increases by 20%, and you can only aim to lower the enemy's attribute by attacking with the weak point attribute, so it is especially important to use techniques that correspond to the enemy's weak point attribute. It has one of the longest range attacks, and can deliver a certain amount of firepower even from long distances. Since it is a long-range weapon, its firepower under normal conditions is average, but it has a skill that greatly increases the power of techniques against downed enemies, and has high rush firepower when downed. Its normal firepower is on par with other classes, and on top of that, it is equipped with two types of active skills and high DPS gauge techniques, making it extremely strong in battles that end in a short amount of time. In addition, it is possible to steadily and continuously distribute damage + attribute attacks of a certain amount to a group of enemies, and the range attack performance of the combined technique is extremely excellent, making it extremely strong against group battles. It has many class skills that assist in PP recovery, and its DPS is less uneven. If you set it as a subclass, other classes can also benefit from it. It has the lowest HP and lowest defense after Slayer (Sl) among all classes, so be careful not to get hit. While Rod is good at long-range attacks, the DPS of counter actions (Elemental Bullet) and step counters during weapon action guard are quite low. Long battles cannot be avoided, and in order to provide high firepower against raid bosses where counters are the mainstay, it is necessary to make full use of counters using guard points of some actions, and short-range techniques depending on the attribute. Unlike other weapon types, the rod's technique activation motion, parry, and counter action do not have the property of forcibly moving, so the player can move around while adjusting the position at will. Coupled with the Elemental Bullet's homing performance and the range of its techniques, it is able to fight by ``positioning itself to easily understand the enemy's motion and counterattack'' rather than ``taking a position to hit a weak point with a counter attack,'' making it excellent at short-to-medium range combat in ways other than firepower, which is different from melee classes. Careful maneuvering is required, but the high-performance rod guard and the presence of Rod React Advance mean that when equipped with a rod, it is difficult to die even if you move roughly. Get stability with a low firepower but excellent weapon action guard, or It is up to the player to aim for a severe but powerful counter using some techniques and rod attack impact guard points. On the other hand, Tallis has almost no counter means, only step counters, but it has the characteristic that when a technique is used after PA, it changes to an attribute bullet, allowing it to fire stable attacks and wide-range attacks with the same properties regardless of the attribute. Although its firepower is low against a single target, its strength is its stability, allowing it to continue firing almost guaranteed attacks over and over from a safe distance and high altitude. You can reliably accumulate damage even against enemies that move violently. Depending on the selection of Tech Arts Customization, the rate at which the attribute reduction value accumulates will also be at a fairly high level. Regardless of whether you use Rod or Tallis, unless you are trying to push the limits of performance, you are basically a class that only uses sniping techniques from long distances, so it is very easy to operate. Therefore, this class is highly recommended for beginners and those who are not good at high-speed close combat. ▼ Adjustment/Modification history 2021/10/13 Update HP upwardly revised Force subclass Force EX style Force as a subclass Comments ▲ ▼ Class skill list "Yellow background color" is a skill added on December 4, 2024 PP conversion PP recovery up Killing PP gain Technique charge PP well up Resterfield Fo Slow landing Charge Fo PP conversion Increase Long Range Advantage Fo Unite Technique Fo Foie Brand Vertablot Sondeclad Photon Flare Unite Technique PP Well Up U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo Zangale Glanz Glitter Megidosphere Force Technique Short Charge Photon Flare After PP Gain Photon Flare Short Cycle Photon Flare Extension Technique Domination Rod Technique Amplify Elemental Bullet Rod Technique Keep Tricky Capacitor Talis Bloom After PP Gain Talis Bloom Revoke Stay PP Gain Elemental Bullet Extend Rod Technique PP Well Up Tricky Capacitor Quick Recharge Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Rod React Advance Rod Attack Impact Rod Charge Quick Move Talis Sign Marking Float Torchica Multilock Red letters are skills exclusive to the main class. Skill points can only be earned when clearing Trainier for the first time, and can be used by all classes. The current maximum skill point is 47. (=Aerio 20SP + Ritem 10SP + Kuvaris 10SP + Steer 7SP) ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Update Added class skill "Rod Technique Amplify" Added class skill "Photon Flare Extension" Changed class skill "Photon Flare Short Charge" to "Force Technique Short Charge" 2023/06/07 Update Added class skill "Rod Attack Impact" Added class skill "Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish" 2022/12/07 Update Added class skill "Unite Technique PP Well Up" Added class skill "U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo" Added class skill "Rod Charge Quick Move" Added class skill "Talis Sign Marking" 2021/12/15 Added class skill "Technique Domination" Added class skill "Elemental Bullet Extend" Added class skill "Tricky Capacitor Quick Recharge" Added class skill "Zangale" Added class skill "Glantz Glitter" Added class skill "Megido Sphere" 2022/04/06 Added class skill "Unite Technique Fo" 2022/06/08 Added class skill "Foie Brand" Added class skill "Photon Flare Short Cycle" Added class skill "Rod Technique PP Well Up" Added class skill "Talis Bloom After PP Gain" Added class skill "Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify" ▲ ▼ Class Skill Details ▲ ▼ PP Convert [Active Skill] When activated, in exchange for consuming a certain percentage of HP based on the maximum HP, the natural recovery amount of PP increases for a certain period of time. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 HP consumption rate 3% PP natural recovery amount Main 600% 630% 660% 680% 700% Sub 400% 450% 500% 550% 600% Effect time 30 seconds Recast 150 seconds The class skill with the same name that appeared in the old PSO2 had the disadvantage of changing the maximum/current HP, but in the NGS version, the damage taken is a fixed percentage of the maximum HP. After use, you can recover with Resta sign. Conversely, just because PP conversion is completed does not mean that the consumed HP will be returned. The number of damage taken will be displayed, and the damage autoword will be activated. It is not added to Trainier's damage limit side missions. This damage taken is unaffected by defense and damage resistance. It seems that it is judged as an attack made by yourself against yourself, and although the amount of damage does not change, it seems that it is also judged as a critical hit. Even if the amount consumed is more than the remaining HP, 1 HP remains. Both the main and sub skills are excellent skills that demonstrate sufficient recovery power even at level 1. Although it is written as a natural recovery increase, the recovery speed is very high and it can be considered as a de facto instant PP recovery skill as it fully recovers in a few seconds. However, it is a natural recovery, so if you continue to do actions that do not recover PP (PA or photon dash), it will not recover. Even if you recover while dashing due to the effect of an add-on skill, the high-speed recovery due to conversion is disabled. It is necessary to allow time for PP such as normal attacks to recover naturally. In the 2024/12 update, in addition to greatly reducing HP consumption rate and reducing recasts, it became a trigger for the Force Technique Short Charge, and its importance has increased considerably, especially when equipped with a rod. The degree of contribution varies depending on the attribute, but it is essentially used as the second firepower-based active skill after Photon Flare. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 HP consumption rate reduction 20% → 3% Recast reduction 180 seconds → 150 seconds 2021/08/04 Fixed a bug that would not activate under certain conditions. ▲ ▼ PP Conversion Increase The number of PP conversion stocks increases. Image Lv. 1 Maximum Stock 2 times After completing one recast, another recast will occur, allowing you to store up to two times. The recast per time (150 seconds) remains unchanged. You won't be able to use it twice in 150 seconds, but you will be able to use it twice in 300 seconds. The recast will not proceed while it is active, so if it is activated during the second recast, the recast will stop for 30 seconds. Be careful when using it in conjunction with other active skills such as Photon Flare, as the time until it can be activated will be delayed. ▲ ▼ PP Recovery Up Increases the natural recovery amount of PP. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PP natural recovery amount Main 150% 156% 162% 166% 172% 178% 184% 190% 195% 200% Sub 110% 114% 118% 122% 126% 130% 135% 140% 145% 150% Lv. 11 12 13 14 15 PP natural recovery amount Main 202% 204% 206% 208% 210% Sub 152% 154% 156% 158% 160% Large effect size, Technique charge PP well up Combined with this, PP will be dramatically improved. Normal (100%) PP natural recovery amount is 100 in 20 seconds. If you use PP Recovery Up Lv.1 (150%), you will recover 150 points in 20 seconds. It multiplies with Quick Food's [Refreshing], which also has the effect of increasing natural PP recovery, and Preset ability's Fixa Natura. ▼ Change history 2022/06/08 Added Lv.11 to 15 ▲ ▼ Killing PP gain PP is recovered when you knock down or defeat enemies around you. Image Lv. 1 PP recovery rate 5% In addition to various enemies, Tames is also targeted. Ore and item containers are not affected. It seems that those that are counted as the number of enemy subjugation by tasks and titles are targeted. The applicable range is fairly wide, within 50m, and this skill is useful in group fights against small fish, especially PSE burst. It is a percentage recovery, and the higher the maximum PP, the greater the benefit. ▲ ▼ Technique Charge PP Well Up PP will now recover naturally even during technique charge. *Force weapon only Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ When using Resta Field Fo Resta Sign, Surrounding characters will also be healed. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 - - You can use Resta Sign even if your HP is full. The range field remains for about 5 seconds after using Resta sign. Unlike the Tector version, the amount of recovery does not increase. Force uses PP conversion frequently, so Resta sign itself tends to be used frequently. If you also want to recover an ally whose HP has decreased, it is easier to do so by setting the HP bar to be displayed above the character's head. However, with the addition of the EX special ability, inadvertently healing others may become a nuisance, so you should consider not taking this skill. Skill activation (C)SEGA Skill activation (C)SEGA ▲ ▼ Slow Landing Charge Fo During technique charge, the falling speed becomes slower. *For force weapons only Image Lv. 1 - - In open fields, there are many cases where the line of fire is blocked by the undulations of the terrain. If you acquire it, you will be able to reduce the frequency of jumping and it will be more comfortable. There are quite a few enemies that do not have the means to attack upwards, and if anything, most of their actions are directed towards the ground. Once acquired, you will be able to maintain altitude and fight safely. Another point is that by jumping high and overlooking the battlefield, it becomes easier to lock on to your target opponent. Injection-type techniques such as Bata make it easier to aim at high places by acquiring a slow landing. This benefit will be greater when fighting large enemies such as the Daidal Sword, which have weak points and gimmicks in high places. The narrow firing angle of Bata was fixed in the maintenance on August 4, 2021, but it is still good to have in order to accurately target weak points. Even if you don't acquire it, you can stay in the air to some extent by repeatedly hitting normal attacks and non-charge techniques. ▲ ▼ Carve a mark of flame by hitting the enemy multiple times with Foiebrand's fire attribute technique. If you hit it with a technique of the same attribute, the engraving will detonate, an additional attack will occur, and PP will be recovered. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The number of techniques required to apply the stamp and detonate varies depending on the type of technique and whether or not there is a charge. See also fire element technique. In addition to techniques, it can be engraved with Fomergion, and can be imprinted and detonated with the Jet Boots Element Set. Elemental Bullet cannot do either. ▼ Accumulated value required for application and detonation (verification required) The accumulated value of each action is 2.7 for Foie (fireball 2.4 + vortex 0.1 × 3 hits), Charge Foie 3.8, Gifoie 2.7 (0.9 × 3 hits), Charge Gifoie 6 (2 × 3 hits), and Jet Boots pursuit 2.4. A stamp is given when the cumulative accumulated value is 9 or more, and it detonates when it is 14.5 or more. Since there is a maximum difference of 5.5 from the time of imposition to detonation, the detonation may not occur with the action immediately after the imprint is applied. The follow-up power when detonated is 80. PP recovery amount is 10. The power and PP recovery amount do not change depending on the type of technique or whether or not it is charged. Foie Brand (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Power has been upwardly revised (55→80) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Vertablot By applying an uncharged ice attribute technique to an enemy, it carves an ice emblem that is strengthened up to two levels depending on the number of times. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the emblem will detonate and deal additional damage according to the level of reinforcement. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you continue to use uncharged ice-based techniques, ice emblems will be carved on the enemy. (Upper limit is 2 levels) If you hit any charged ice attribute technique while the ice emblem is visible, the emblem will be consumed and a follow-up attack will occur. The number of hits required to carve a crest is 4 hits for the first stage and 7 hits for the second stage. The emblem will disappear automatically after about 15 seconds after being carved. Even if you hit a charge attack with no emblem (1st to 3rd stage), the number of stages will not be reset. The pursuit power is 200 in the first stage and 400 in the second stage. It is not affected by the detonation technique, and whether it is detonated with Bata or Gi Bata, the power will be the same if it is at the same stage. If you destroy parts (including the enhancer) using a detonation technique, the emblem will be reset without an explosion. The emblem detonation itself does not have a hit detection, but is it treated as a follow-up attack that is triggered at a time difference? It seems that if you apply the detonation technique as described above and at the same time cause part destruction or the part is hidden, a phenomenon will occur where no damage will be done even if the emblem detonation is activated. in this case, Since the detonation itself has been done, the emblem will be reset. Note that ice-attribute techniques changed by Wondo's ice-attribute attack explosion or Talis' PA are not included in this count. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. If you set the particle quality in the graphic settings to 2 or higher, the emblem will become white and clearly visible. (PC version only?) ▼ Adjustment/fix history 2021/08/04 Fixed a bug where the ice attribute technique used by NPCs affected the player's bartablot. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Sondeclad By hitting an enemy with an uncharged lightning attribute technique a certain number of times, you become charged. Furthermore, if you use a charged technique with the same attribute, the charge will be removed and that technique will be strengthened. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you keep hitting the non-charged version, a ring-shaped effect will appear around the player. If you activate any lightning charge technique in this state, the final stage of continuous damage will be strengthened. The number of hits required for the ring effect to appear is 10. If you can attack multiple enemies at the same time, the number of times required will decrease. Even if you use a charge technique in between, the count will not be reset. Note that this count does not include Wand's lightning attack explosion or Talis's PA-induced lightning attribute techniques. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Zangair By applying an uncharged wind attribute technique to an enemy, a wind ring is attached. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the wind ring will expand and an additional attack will occur. Attacks by Wind Ring change depending on the technique used. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Techniques/Wind Attributes. A type of skill like Virtablot that attaches a marker to an enemy without charging and detonates it with a charge. Attachment is completed with just one non-charge hit. No further steps will be taken. Zangale (C)SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Glanz Glitter By applying light attribute technique to an enemy multiple times, a ring of light will develop around you for a certain period of time. During deployment, if you use a technique with the same attribute, an additional attack will occur depending on the technique. If you deploy the ring of light again while it is being deployed, the effect will not overlap, and instead, the effect time of the ring of light that is currently being deployed will be reset. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The halo lasts for 10 seconds. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Light Attribute. If it is a light attribute technique, it can be deployed and maintained regardless of whether it is charged or uncharged, and additional attacks do not consume dedicated resources, so after deploying the light ring, you can fight without worrying about its operation. The deployment technique by Talis PA cannot deploy and maintain the ring of light, and no additional attacks will occur. Pursuit with the Jet Boots Element Set allows you to deploy and maintain a light ring. The number of hits required for deployment and maintenance is not simply the number of hits, but a cumulative value set for each technique's attack judgment is counted each time it hits, and when it reaches a certain level, it will be deployed and maintained, which seems to be similar to physical down/attribute down. For example, Granz can deploy the ring of light in 4 hits with either charged (4 attacks) or non-charged (1 attack), but if he continues to hit the charged version only for the first hit, he can finally deploy it on the 19th hit. On the other hand, if Gi Grants (charged and non-charged attack twice) hits many enemies at once, it can be deployed in one attack. The hit count during the development of the ring of light is maintained even after it disappears. For example, if you hit the non-charged version of Grunts three times during deployment and then disappear, you can deploy it again just by hitting the non-charged version of Grunts one more time. Granz Glitter (C) SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Megidosphere By applying an uncharged dark attribute technique to an enemy, you can stock up to 3 dark beads around yourself. Furthermore, when you use a charged technique of the same attribute, all Dark Beads are consumed, and the technique is strengthened according to the number consumed. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The Dark Bead lasts approximately 20 seconds. Additional attacks differ depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Dark Attribute. The more dark beads you consume at once, the more effective each one becomes. In addition to the non-charged version of the technique, you can also stock Dark Beads with Elemental Bullet and Jet Boots Element Set, but you cannot stock them with Talis Deployment Technique. Also, if you hit multiple enemies with Megiddo, you can stock up to 3 at once. It is difficult to say that stocking up Dark Beads one by one using the non-charged version technique is efficient in terms of PP, so be aware of stocking up using the methods described above. Megidosphere (C)SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Long Range Advantage Fo Implemented on October 11, 2023 Increases the damage dealt by PA and techniques to boss enemies that are not targeting you. *Main class/Ranger, Gunner, Force, Tector (Talis), Braver (Bullet Bow) Weapon only Image Lv. 1 Power 115% This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). A skill added to adjust the balance when using long-range weapons in multiplayer. As stated in the description, only PA and techniques are covered, and class skills, normal attacks, counters, etc. are not covered. Compound techniques with the name "technique" are class skills and are therefore not eligible, but Talis' conversion techniques are. You can tell whether an enemy is targeting you by looking at whether or not there is an eye symbol next to the enemy's name. Due to its nature, it goes well with the Ranger's class skill Obscure Form, which makes it difficult to be targeted. Basically, it targets ranged and legal weapons, but Waker and Slayer cannot be learned, and Tector's Wand is excluded, so be careful. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Unite Technique Fo Complex Attribute Technique becomes available. Complex attribute techniques are activated by accumulating a complex attribute technique gauge through attacks and consuming the accumulated gauge. Can be stocked up to 2 times. *Main Class/Force, Techter Weapon Only Image Lv. 1 Fomergion Power 2600 Verlanzion Power 2530 Zandion Power 2295 This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). If you do not acquire this skill, you will not be able to use complex attribute techniques. See "Techniques/Complex Attributes" for information on each complex attribute technique. Complex attribute techniques can be activated by consuming the complex attribute technique gauge instead of PP. The same gauge can be stocked for up to 2 shots. Differences between Force version and Tector version The Force version is called "Unite Technique Fo" and the Tector version is called "Unite Technique Te". There is no performance difference between the two skills. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Power has been revised upward Phomelgion: 2070→2600 Verlanzion: 2024→2530 Zandion: 1836→2295 2023/08/02 Power has been revised upward Phomelgion: 1800→2070 Barlanzion: 1760→2024 Zandion: 1600→1836 Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Unite Technique PP Well-Up Complex Attribute Technique PP will recover naturally while activated. *For main class/Force and Techter weapons only Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo When attacking an enemy with a technique with a weak attribute or a legal attack explosion, the gauge accumulation amount of a composite attribute technique increases. *For Force and Tector weapons only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Gauge accumulation rate Main 120% 135% 150% Sub 110% 120% 130% Force and Tector exist in both skill trees, but by learning both, the multi-attribute technique gauge accumulation increase effect will be applied overlappingly. Therefore, by making the class structure a combination of Fo/Te, complex attribute techniques can be used quite often. Differences between Force version and Tector version There is no performance difference between the two skills. The force version is called "U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo" and the techer version is called "U Technique Gauge Amplify Te." Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Photon Flare [Active Skill] Increases maximum PP and damage dealt for a certain period of time. *Main class/Force weapon only Image Lv. 1 Power 120% Power when charged 110% Increased PP +100 Effect time 30 seconds Recast 120 seconds Maximum PP increase applies even when other weapons are equipped. Although it is not mentioned in the description, PP is currently fully restored upon activation. If you equip Rod or Tallis, the power of not only techniques but also normal attacks, dive attacks, Tallis' PA and behavior change techniques, and the photon blast of both weapons will also increase. Of course, the power of Rod Attack Impact, Elemental Bullet, Tricky Capacitor, Talistorchka, etc. is also applicable, and all of them are subject to power increases without exception. Since this increases the power of all attacks with force weapons, it is also possible to increase the damage of complex attribute techniques, which are basically unaffected by skill effects.It does not apply to attacks or PA of other weapon types incorporated into force weapons as multi-weapons. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 The power increase amount of the technique when charged has been revised downward (120% → 110%) *The power reduction of Photon Flare Short Charge has been eliminated. The increased PP has been revised upward (50 → 100) Specifications have been changed so that PP will recover to the maximum when activated. 2023/10/11 Recast time has been shortened. (180 seconds → 120 seconds) 2021/08/04 Fixed a bug where PP would not recover when activated under certain conditions. ▲ ▼ Force Technique Short Charge (formerly Photon Flare Short Charge) Reduces the charge time of the technique while Photon Flare or PP Convert is active. *Main Class/Force Weapon Only Image Lv. 1 Charge Time 60% The benefit is particularly strong when repeatedly hitting the Charge Guy Foie, which has a long charge time and high power. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Skill name changed from "Photon Flare Short Charge" to "Force Technique Short Charge". Adjusted so that the power of techniques does not decrease when charged. The specifications have been changed so that the charging time of techniques is reduced even when PP conversion is activated. ▲ ▼ Photon Flare After PP Gain When Photon Flare ends, PP is recovered according to the amount of PP consumed during Photon Flare. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery rate 50% Maximum PP recovery amount +200 Similar to Photon Flare's PP increase effect, it also activates with non-force weapons. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Upward correction of PP recovery rate Upward correction of maximum PP recovery amount ▲ ▼ Photon Flare Short Cycle In exchange for reducing the effect time of Photon Flare, shorten the time until it can be used again. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 Effect time 25 seconds 23 seconds 21 seconds 18 seconds 15 seconds Recast 100 seconds 90 seconds 80 seconds 70 seconds 60 seconds As the name suggests, this skill allows you to use Photon Flare in short cycles. In exchange for the recast reduction, the effect time is also shortened, so the impact on the overall firepower (if you just look at the numbers) is not much different. As I will explain later, Lv.2 to 4 are a good deal. The focus is on whether the recast reduction will allow you to be in time for the enemy's next knockdown, and whether the increased frequency of PP recovery through Photon Flare and After PP Gain will be useful. The length of the down time varies depending on the enemy, but if you reach a high level, there will be more enemies whose effects will wear off before they return even if you use them in conjunction with the down time. 1 to 3 swings may be just right. With the addition of Photon Flare Extension, there is no waste when you adjust it according to the cycle of the compound technique. Percentage of Photon Flare effect time in one cycle by acquisition status of this skill Not acquired: 20.00% Lv.1: 20.00% Lv.2: 20.35% Lv.3: 20.79% Lv.4: 20.45% Lv.5: 20.00% ▼ Adjustment / modification history 2023/10/11 Reduced recast time. (150 seconds / 135 seconds / 120 seconds / 105 seconds / 90 seconds → 100 seconds / 90 seconds / 80 seconds / 70 seconds / 60 seconds) ▲ ▼ Photon Flare Extension Implemented on December 4, 2024 When a complex attribute technique or photon blast is activated, the effect duration of the activated photon flare will be extended. If Photon Flare is not activated, the effect will accumulate up to 3 times and will be applied the next time Photon Flare is activated. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Effect time: 4 seconds Maximum effect time: 12 seconds The time extension is the maximum of 12 seconds, which is the total of "Stock before Photon Flare is activated + Extended amount while Photon Flare is activated." Photon flares cannot be maintained indefinitely. When the Photon Flare effect ends, the extension time and stock amount will be reset. If you have stock that extends the time before photon flare is activated, your right hand will glow blue. Since there is no restriction on weapon category, it is possible to extend the time and stock the number of times using the wand's multi-attribute technique or the subclass weapon's photon blast. ▲ ▼ Technique Domination Increases the damage dealt by techniques to downed enemies. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Power 130% As the description says, it only applies to techniques. Therefore, it does not apply to Elemental Bullet, Photon Blast, or other weapon PA/skills that are not techniques. Although composite attribute techniques have the word "technique" in their names, they are not treated as techniques, so their effects do not apply. Therefore, even if you use a composite attribute technique when an enemy is down, the power will not increase. Explosive skills such as Verta Blot seem to be treated as techniques, and Technique Domination is applied to them. This also applies to techniques whose behavior has changed due to Taris's PA. This applies not only to physical down and attribute down, but also to part destruction down and boss enemy gauge BREAK. See also the video on Rappy.commu. Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▲ ▼ Elemental Bullet When activating a technique after a successful guard with a weapon action, an attack with a legal bullet of the same attribute is added. *Rod only Image Lv. 1 Maximum number of stocks 2 times A stock type that can be activated even if other actions are in between after successfully guarding once. The power of the legal bullet is 200. Hitting the enemy with the legal bullet will restore 10 PP. For attacks, PP recovery power increases from food effects and preset effects are applied. Due to its high bullet speed and tracking performance, it has extremely high accuracy. The amount of attribute down value accumulated is slightly higher than the uncharged technique. About 60% of charge technique. It is treated as one hit of "uncharged technique" which is a condition of bartablot series skill. By inserting an elemental bullet into a technique where the attack judgment is sustained and hits multiple times, it is also possible to complete the process of imprinting and detonating in one technique. (For example, fire a charge Gi-zan + elemental bullet → land (attached wind ring) → detonate on Gi-zan's 3rd hit, etc.) In addition to being activated by the uncharged version Gui Foie's guard check when going out, it is also activated by the shield of the EX special ability EX Try Shield. It will not be activated by guard actions of other weapon types incorporated into a multi-weapon. Stocks remain even if you teleport. With the update on December 4, 2024, you can now stock up to 2 doses. There is no way to check the stock number. With the same update, it is now possible to fire with Rod Attack Impact. ▲ ▼ Rod Technique Amplify Implemented on December 4, 2024 Increases the damage and attribute down value given by techniques. *Rod only Image Lv. 1 Power 110% Power (non-weakness attribute) 115% Attribute down value increase 120% This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). ``110%'' when using a weak attribute and ``115%'' when using a non-weak attribute do not overlap. Skill effect Weakness attribute correction Final magnification Weakness attribute 110% 120% 132% Non-weakness attribute 115% 100% 115% When using Fixer Unwix, the multiplier for non-weakness will be slightly higher. However, it can be reversed again by increasing the weak point damage of Shakki-type food. ▼ Comparison by weapon preset Skill effect Weakness attribute correction Preset magnification (Attack Lv5) Final magnification Weakness attribute 110% 120% 110% 145.2% Non-weakness attribute 115% 100% 110% 126.5% Skill effect Weakness attribute correction Preset magnification (Wix Lv5) Final magnification Weakness attribute 110% 120% 114.24% 150.7968% Non-weakness attribute 115% 100% 102% 117.3% Skill effect Weakness attribute correction Preset magnification (Anwix Lv5) Final magnification Weakness attribute 110% 120% 102% 134.64% Non-weakness attribute 115% 100% 117.3% 134.895% ▲ ▼ Elemental Bullet Extend If you do not attack or evade after activating the technique, Elemental Bullet will be stocked. *Main class/rod only Image Lv. 1 Recast 20 seconds The timing to stock is the same as Stay PP Gain. The number that can be stocked is up to 2 shots. ガードしてもバレット数はこれ以上増えない。 ただし、ストックが2発分あってもエレメンタルバレットエクステンドのリキャストが終わっていれば発射後に補充される。 リキャストが完了すると効果音と共にプレイヤーを中心に青い環状のエフェクトが表示される。 ステイPPゲインとの併用で、敵の攻撃を受けないタイミングでの火力＆PP管理の補助として意識しておくと良い。 発動タイミング緩和の影響で、次のテクニックが発動可能なタイミングから本スキル発動までの時間でDPS換算すると1000を超える凄まじい数値になっている。 とはいえジャストタイミングを狙うのは難しく、僅かに遅れるだけで簡単にガタ落ちする数値であるため、参考程度に。0.1秒台という極めて短い時間なのでトータルへの影響も薄い。 ステイPPゲインともども、テクニックを連打している時に、少し連打がもたつくと暴発してしまう程度には発動タイミングが速くなっている。 ▼ 調整・修正履歴 2024/12/04 発動タイミングを緩和 ▲ ▼ ロッドテクニックキープ テクニックチャージ時に、武器アクションやステップを行っても、チャージ状態を維持し、 次の同一テクニック使用時にPPを消費せず、チャージ時間も短縮される。 ※ロッド専用 画像 Lv. 1 - - 適用時は、キャラクターの周囲にテクニックチャージ時の属性色のパーティクルと効果音が常に出た状態になる。 チャージ完了時はチャージ完了のエフェクトも表示される。 チャージを中断してから別のテクニックを挟むと効果が消失するため、チャージ中断後は最初に同一テクニックを使う必要がある。 最大チャージ状態を維持しても、チャージテクニックを放ちたい時はボタンを一瞬長押しする必要がある。 ▲ ▼ ロッドテクニックPPウェルアップ テクニック発動中に、PPの自然回復速度が低下するかわりに、PPが自然回復するようになる。 ※メインクラス／ロッド専用 画像 Lv. 1 2 3 PP自然回復量 15% 20% 30% テクニック発動中はPP回復が停止するが、本スキルを取得するとテクニック発動中でも回復するようになる。 ノンチャージテクニックを多用するほど恩恵を得られる。 PP回復量は、自然回復速度にスキル倍率をかけた分となる。 つまるところテクニック発動中もゆっくりPPが回復するようになるスキルなのでデメリットは一切ない。 ▲ ▼ ロッドチャージクイックムーブ テクニック チャージ中の移動速度が上昇する。 ※ロッド専用 画像 Lv. 1 - - テクニックチャージ中の欠点であった移動速度が、このクラススキルによって少し改善される。 一見非常に地味なスキルだが、テクニックチャージ中の移動速度の上昇ぶりは目を見張るものがあり、なんと フォトンダッシュおよびグライドと遜色ない速度で移動可能となる。 あると無いとでの体感差は相当なレベル。 他の法撃武器種と使い比べるとわかりやすいが、当スキル込みのロッドは攻撃しながらの移動だけで敵の座標攻撃が大体回避出来るようになるので、実戦での性能差は大きい。 テクニック発動モーションの最中は適用対象外。そのため、移動しながらのチャージと発動を繰り返していると発動時のみやや減速する感覚になる。 ▲ ▼ ロッドアタックインパクト 2023年6月7日 実装 テクニックを複数回エネミーに当てることでゲージを蓄積する。そのゲージを最大にすると、一定回数、通常攻撃が強力な攻撃に変化する。変化した攻撃は、最後に使用したテクニックと同じ属性になる。 ※ロッド専用 画像 Lv. 1 持続回数 6 ロッド装備中のテクニック及び複合属性テクニックでゲージを蓄積できる。 複合属性テクニックの最終段を当てるとゲージが最大になる。最終段以外では蓄積しない。 マルチウェポンの場合はテクニック発動時点での武器の形態を参照する。 例えばロッド+タリスを装備中に、タリスでバーランツィオンを発動し最終段までにロッドに切り替えてもゲージは蓄積しない。 ゲージが最大の時に通常攻撃を使用すると、ゲージを消費して変化攻撃を発動し残りの持続回数が通常攻撃パレットに表示される。 持続回数を残したままゲージを蓄積できるが、ゲージが最大になった時点で6回にリセットされるため、それまでに使い切っておくと無駄がない。 拠点を出てからロッドで一度もテクニックを使っていない場合、変化攻撃は発生せずゲージも消費しない。 変化攻撃の威力は245、PP回復量は12。 最後に使用したテクニックと同じ属性を持ち、弱点属性倍率が適用される。 攻撃時、エレメンタルバレットがストックされていれば同属性のものを発射する。 テクニックではないため、テクニックドミネーションの対象にはならない。 The count of the corresponding attribute technique skill advances. It is more powerful than uncharged techniques, and can advance the count while recovering PP. The count is equivalent to one technique, and only the lightning attribute accumulates for two hits. If multiple people are involved, lightning and light will count by the number of people involved, but darkness will only count by one. This attack cannot detonate. Only the Foie type stamp can be detonated. Grants super armor during the motion. In addition, a guard point is given at the beginning of the attack, and when you guard against an enemy attack, you will fire an elemental bullet. (Stock on successful guard → Immediately fire when attacking) Force is a valuable high DPS counter means, so if the technique side does not have a guard point, you may be required to manage the number of stocks in addition to just hitting repeatedly. Coordinate system range attack. The range is long enough to reach the lock-on distance. With the update, gauges for composite attribute techniques can now be accumulated. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Increased power (210 → 245) Added Omnidirectional Guard Points Adjusted so that the composite technique gauge accumulates Adjusted so that when lightning attribute rod attack impact hits an enemy, the charging effect of Zondeklad will accumulate twice ▲ ▼ Rod React Advance When you use a technique to negate an attack with a weapon action or successfully dodge with a step, an invincibility period occurs. *Rod only Image Lv. 1 - - You will be invincible for a certain period of time from the moment you start charging or activating a technique. There is a white light and transparency effect only when the technique is activated, but it is actually applied both when charging starts and when the technique is activated. Applies if the technique is used immediately after a successful block/evasion. An important skill for ensuring safety when preventing enemy attacks and counterattacking. He can fight back without any problem even against intense continuous attacks that would normally require him to stop attacking and focus on defense or evasion. With the update, the invincibility time at the start of charging has been increased to the extent that even Guy Foie, who has a long charging time, can get through it. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Extended invincibility time at the start of technique charge ▲ ▼ Stay PP Gain If you do not attack or evade after the technique is activated, PP will be recovered. *Rod only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery amount +15 PP will be recovered at the timing immediately after starting the Zanshin motion immediately after activating a technique with the rod. When activated, a blue particle effect will be displayed. It's like the Partisan's "dance" in the old PSO2, but it doesn't have natural recovery speed up, etc. As long as you don't cancel the motion, it will be activated even if you move. Elemental Bullet Extend, which was added later, is activated in exactly the same way. Since they are easy to use, the significance of acquiring Stay PP Gain has also increased. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Relaxed activation timing ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor [Active Skill] Performs a special long-range attack by consuming the accumulated gauge by attacking. Image for Talis only Lv. 1 Power 750 A common skill between Force and Tector. A 5-shot guided bullet that consumes a special gauge and fires. Can be set to subpalettes and weapon palettes. Power distribution is 150 x 5 hits, PP recovery amount is 18 x 5 hits, and invincible during the motion. When used on the ground, the character's altitude increases slightly. (Less than 1m?) The altitude increase when used in the air has been eliminated by the adjustment in December 2024. When you obtain the Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish, its behavior changes depending on the deployment state of Taris. The gauge can be accumulated by attacks using Talis (normal attacks, step attacks, step counters, weapon actions, PA, conversion techniques during PA deployment), techniques with Talis equipped, and non-Talis attacks by multi-weapons including Talis. Also, even if attacks are made by Talis, dive attacks and dash attacks are not subject to accumulation. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Changed the specifications so that the altitude does not increase when attacking in the air 2023/08/02 Adjusted the power upward (700 → 750) 2022/04/06 Adjusted to make it easier to hit Changed the specifications so that it can move when activated Edit items common to this class ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor Quick Recharge After Tricky Capacitor is activated, the amount accumulated in the Tricky Capacitor gauge increases for a certain period of time. *Main class/Talis only Image Lv. 1 Gauge accumulation rate 150% Effect time 20 seconds Regarding Talis, which has many skills in common with Tector, this is the only one that can be learned by Force. During the duration of the effect, a purple ring will appear around the character. The synergistic effect with the later implemented skills ``Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify'' and ``Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish'' greatly increases the rotation speed of the capacitor. The difference is easy to see during burst hunting, where the capacitor gauge tends to fill up, and you can simply use tricky capacitors 1.5 times more often than other classes. ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplification Implemented on June 8, 2022 When attacking an enemy with a weak attribute technique while deploying Talis by PA, the amount of gauge accumulated in the tricky capacitor will increase. *Main class/Talis exclusive Image Lv. 1 Gauge accumulation rate 250% Common skill of Force and Tector. With the addition of this skill, Tricky Capacitor is now in practical use even in boss battles where gauge accumulation was slow. Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish, which was implemented later, greatly increased the gauge accumulation speed even during bursts. The importance of firepower has increased. Depending on the spread of the enemy's attributes, Tricky Capacitor can be used every 3 to 5 times with Spread Feather. Before Bloom Flourish was added, it was a single-target attack, so it was more useful as a way to replenish PP. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Implemented on June 7, 2023 During the deployment of Talis by PA, Tricky Capacitor's attack changes depending on the deployment state. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. No deployment: Up to 5 hits on enemies in front as before (power 150 x 5 hits) Perforate shoot: Coordinate attack (power 150 x 5 hits. If there are other enemies nearby, you can involve them) Spread feather (forward deployment): Penetrating attack in a fan shape (1 hit on each enemy within range in front. Power 750) Spread Feather (surrounding deployment): Penetrating attack in the surrounding area (1 hit on each enemy within the surrounding area. Power is 750) The amount of PP recovered is the same in all variations, 18 per hit. The perforated version maintains the same number of hits, but increases the certainty of PP recovery by using coordinate attacks. (18x5 = 90 recovery) The two types of spread versions are 1-hit wide-range penetrating bullets, so if you can only hit 4 or fewer enemies, the amount of PP recovered will be lower than the non-deployment version. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/08/02 Increased power (140 x 5 → 150 x 5) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Talis Bloom After PP Gain When Talis blooms through PA, PP is recovered according to the number of times the technique is used. *Main class/Talis exclusive Image Lv. 1 PP recovery amount +4 Maximum PP recovery amount +60 Common skill for Force and Tector. To activate this skill, you must use the technique at least once while Talis is deployed. The end of deployment refers to four timings: ``20 seconds have passed since Talis was deployed by PA,'' ``Deployment is canceled by Talis Bloom Revoke,'' ``When Talis' deployment ends due to changing weapons,'' and ``Talis is redeployed using Talis PA.'' Switching weapons also includes changing weapons with multi-weapons. If activated by reusing Talis PA, the PP consumed by the used PA will be recovered. This PP recovery is not included in the maximum PP recovery amount limit. This effectively cancels out the PP consumption of the PA itself. Example: If you follow the flow of ``use a technique 15 times or more while Talis is deployed (recovery amount 60) → activate the skill by using Perforate Shot (PP 15 consumption)'', in addition to the maximum recovery amount of 60, 15 of the PP consumed by Perforate Shot will be added, resulting in 75 recovery. After all, it is "returned after PP is activated", and the PP consumption of the PA used does not become 0. If there is no PP left for activation, PA itself cannot be used until it is recovered, and skills cannot be used in this way. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/08/03 Fixed a bug where the effect of Force and Tector's class skill "Talis Bloom After PP Gain" does not activate immediately when Talis's deployment ends due to weapon swapping Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Talis Bloom Revoke By long-pressing the weapon action button, Talis' deployment status due to PA is canceled. Taris exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. After deploying Talis with a weapon action, if you press and hold for about 0.5 seconds or more, the Talis deployment state due to PA will be canceled. When you want to detonate stamps and emblems such as bartablot, you can use charge techniques at the right time by using this skill. It is also useful when you want to hit a target in the sky with a coordinate system attack method (such as charge foie). It can also be canceled by switching to a different weapon (e.g. Primtaris → Zviataris) or switching to a different weapon type (e.g. normal attack, PA, weapon action, etc. of a different type of weapon multi-weaponed with Talis). You can save skill points by using these. However, it cannot be canceled by switching between weapons with the same name (e.g. Primtaris +1 → Primtaris +2). Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Float Torchka Multi-Lock Attacks multiple enemies intermittently for a certain period of time by not inputting direction when a weapon action is activated. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. If a weapon action is used without movement input, the behavior will change for many versus many. The power and PP recovery amount per target will be reduced, but it will target up to 5 targets. One shot is fired per enemy. Three tallis are placed in a circle above the head. Regardless of the aiming status, it will fly to the enemy closest to the placed Taris. Unlike the regular version, firing will stop when there are no enemies or lock targets nearby. Slightly less powerful than the regular version. The power of the multi-lock version is 8.1. The regular version has a power of 9. The power is halved while using a different weapon type in a multi-weapon. It has a slightly shorter range than the regular version. The multi-lock version has a range of approximately 11 steps. (It takes about 10 steps to get from the initial position of the ARCS Training Center to the enemy's position) The regular version can reach the lock-on limit distance (14 steps), and can reach even further if you aim from an over-the-shoulder perspective. The amount of PP collected is ``2 HIT normally, 1 x 5 HIT when multi-locked'' while using another weapon type with multi-weapon: ``1.5 HIT normal time, 0.5 x 5 HIT when multi-locked'' ▼ Adjustment/correction history 2024/12/04 Upward adjustment of power (3 → 8.1) Increased maximum number of targets (3 → 5) Shortened attack interval (1 sec → 0.75 sec) Increased the maximum number of shots (18 → 24) Upwardly revised the accumulated amount of Talis Sign Marking markers 2022/04/06 Extended range Edited common items for this class ▲ ▼ Talis Sign Marking By hitting an enemy multiple times with the Talis technique developed by normal attack, weapon action, or the second hit of Spread Feather, the enemy becomes marked. Marked enemies will receive increased damage from techniques while Talis is deployed. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 Power 110% A common skill between Force and Tector. The actions that accumulate marking counts are as follows. Talis normal attack Talis weapon action (only when Talis is equipped) Step attack and step counter by Talis Talis PA/Spread Feather Derived techniques (when fully deployed) ▼ Adjustment/Modification history 2024/12/04 Upward adjustment of power (105%→110%) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Class skills scheduled to be implemented in the future *Currently, there are no class skills scheduled to be added. ▲ ▼ Force Subclass The combat described below is basically based on the assumption that rods and skills have not been strengthened, and as of 2025, the situation is quite different. Originally, it was configured with the main purpose of attacking to improve performance against bosses and recovering PP, but now that these have been significantly strengthened, attacking with a staff as is has more firepower, and there is almost no point in gaining firepower by switching to a subclass weapon. In addition, PP itself has extremely high recovery performance, and if you fight appropriately against bosses, you will almost never run out of PP, so you will inevitably choose a configuration that increases firepower when downed, increases accumulation of down value, or stability when hit. ▼ FoHu FoHu Effective skills Massive Hunter Flash Guard Combination characteristics Massive Hunter's blow-off immunity is useful in melee or when fighting mainly with charge techniques. Also, the stability when using Talistech during PSE burst increases. However, Force has low HP compared to other jobs, so even with Flash Guard, it is difficult to use tactics such as getting hit by force. I want to think of it as just insurance. ソード関連スキル 定点火力が優秀なソードPAを使えるようになることでフォトンフレアが切れている間などのダウン時にダメージを稼ぎやすい。 ワイヤードランス関連スキル 強力なワイヤードアンカーアヴェンジとワイヤードアンカーストライクバックがメインクラス限定なため主に利用するのはヘリッシュフォールになる。 出待ちで使うなら他のハンターPAの方がDPSに優れるので被弾発動を狙いたいがフォースのHPでは不安が残る。 パルチザン関連スキル こちらもパルチザンパリィアナザーアサルトが利用できないのでPAを単発で利用することになる。Cフェイタルトルネードの頑強やスタッブジャベリンによる定点攻撃は魅力。 TeHu、HuFo、HuTeでも同様のことが可能。フォトンフレアとシフタデバンドどちらを取るかでFoとTeを選ぶ形になる。 ▼ FoFi FoFi 有効なスキル ディフィートアドバンテージ ディフィートPPリカバリー 組み合わせの特徴 ダウン中のエネミーに対するダメージ、PPボーナス ディフィートアドバンテージ、ディフィートPPリカバリー サブHu同様テクニックに足りないダウン時火力を補える。 フォトンフレアとリミットブレイクはそれぞれのクラス専用武器にしか乗らない関係上、優先する武器によってFiFoか選択。 ▼ FoRa FoRa 有効なスキル ウィークバレットセルフベネフィット オブスキュアフォーム バッドコンディションレジスト バッドコンディションリデュース スローランディングアタックRa スローランディングチャージRa ライフルグレネーダー関連 スプレッドショット関連 スライドショットアドバンス スティッキーボムクイックリロード 組み合わせの特徴 ライフルPAリヴォルトエイムやライフル用スキルのライフルグレネーダー＆スプレッドショットの火力およびPP回復とランチャー武器アクションによるPP回復。 2022/04/20のアップデートによりタリスPAスプレッドフェザーという優秀な広範囲攻撃を得たためホーミングダート目的での組み合わせは相対的に価値が落ちた。 過去はPSEバーストを含めた雑魚殲滅向けであったが、タリスの範囲火力向上、ライフルのリヴォルトエイムによる定点火力向上によりむしろボス向けの構成となった。 が、ボス向けなると他クラスも台頭してくる。下記のスキルを利用するかどうかで決めるとよい。 Ra武器アクションや固有スキルはそれぞれ有用で、 マルチウェポン も視野に入る。どちらもフォースの間合いを保ったまま運用できるのもよい。 ライフルの武器アクションは、スライドショットアドバンスで安全に移動しながらPPを回復でき、クールタイムありだが威力の高めなライフルグレネーダーを発射できる。 また、スプレッドショットも威力・PP回復共に強力。 グレネーダーはクールタイム式、スプレッドショットはオートチャージスキルによりゲージが自動的に貯まるため、普段ライフルで攻撃しなくても定期的に使用できる。 ランチャーの武器アクションは、長期戦でのPP回復に長ける。タリスの武器アクションと比べるとよりボス戦向き。 ウィークバレットセルフベネフィットの追加により、レンジャーの武器を使用しない場合でもメインRaのプレイヤーを含むマルチプレイならそこそこ大きい恩恵を受けられるようになった。 ダイダル系など敵の弱点部位と物理ダウン部位が分かれている、または複数あるボスの場合、テクニックを主体とするFoはより多くの属性ダウン値を蓄積できる弱点部位を優先して狙う事が多い。 そうなると、ウィークバレットが貼られている箇所とは別の部位を攻撃する機会が多くなる。そんな時に大きなダメージボーナスを得られるようになる。 状態異常を積極的に付与してくる敵も増加したため、バッドコンディション系2種も地味ながら貢献するようになっている。 どちらもカウンター能力に乏しいタリスとランチャーをマルチウェポンにする場合はオブスキュアフォームも非常に有効。ロッド主軸の場合はエレメンタルバレットの発動を阻害するので一長一短。 ロングレンジアドバンテージFoの実装によりロッドでも狙われないことによるメリットが増えた。マルチPTで狙われがちなら取得することで火力アップが見込める。 ▼ FoGu FoGu 有効なスキル アタックPPリカバリー オーバーウェルム ドッジPPゲイン 組み合わせの特徴 各種PP補助スキルによる長時間の殲滅能力の保持。 Foスキルに加えオーバーウェルムとアタックPPリカバリーとPP回復に重点を置いた構成だが、そもそも雑魚戦ではPPが溢れがち。 2023/06/07のアップデートによりドッジPPゲインがサブクラスでも利用可能になった。 ロッドのパリィには乗らないが、 ステップでの回避がメインとなるタリスを主力に用いた運用をする場合、ボス戦でのPP運用が一気に楽になる。 ボスには属性ダウン値蓄積やメイン専用スキルなどの都合上、主にフォース側の武器を使うことになる。 ボス戦では他クラスに変更することも視野に入れたい。 同じくライフルが使用可能なサブRaと比べると基礎的なPP回復力に優れる反面、 ライフルグレネーダー、スライドショットアドバンスといったライフルの立ち回りを補強するスキルを持たないのが弱み。 ツインマシンガンを運用する場合、現状メインFoである利点が薄い。GuFoを選びたい。 ▼ FoTe FoTe 有効なスキル アウェイクエール ウィークエレメントアンプリファイ UテクニックゲージアンプリファイTe 属性関連スキル タリス関連スキル 組み合わせの特徴 重複するスキルをテクター側で習得することで、フォース側のスキルポイントを節約できる タリス関連スキル、バータブロット、ゾンデクラッド等 ウォンド 関連スキル フォトンブラスト関連スキル フォトンブラストのチャージを早めることでブレイク時にフォトンフレアの乗ったフォトンブラストを発射する準備を整えやすい。 複合テクニック関連スキル UテクニックゲージアンプリファイはFo側とTe側の効果を重複して得られるため、複合テクニックの回転率が上がる。 検証、考察 テクター も参照。 ウォンドを使用しない場合、フォトンブラスト関連を最大まで振りつつテクニック関連とタリス関連を補完できる。 Foツリーは効果が大きいPPリカバリーアップにSPを多く費やすので、FoTe共通スキルをTe側で取ることによりFo側のSPを節約できるメリットは大きい。 2022/12/7時点ではウォンドも比較的強力かつ扱いやすくなったため、特にカウンターを多用したい相手への選択肢になりうる。 ただしウォンドの攻撃はダウン蓄積値のうち結構な割合が物理ダウン側に割かれているため、ロッドやタリスと比べると属性ダウン性能はかなり下がる。相手とPTメンバーを見て適宜使い分けを。 ▼ FoBr FoBr 有効なスキル レスタエフェクトアンプリファイ ブレイクフォールHPゲイン ブレイブコンバット ブレイブコンバットショートサイクル カタナ関係 カタナジャストガードPPゲイン、カタナSCスキップアーツ以外の全て バレットボウ関係 ボウアーツコンボPPセイブ以外の全て 組み合わせの特徴 カウンターが強力で対ボスに有用なBr武器を利用する組み合わせ。サブクラスでも効果を発揮するスキルが多い。 カタナ、バレットボウをメインに据える場合ではBrFoを推奨。 どうしてもFoをメインに据えたいときや、普段はFo武器を使いつつカウンターを連続して狙えそうな場面で持ち替えるのがベター。ブレイブコンバットを60秒に1回使える強力な攻撃として使うのも良い。 レスタエフェクトアンプリファイとブレイクフォールHPゲインによるHP回復 地味ではあるがレスタサインが貴重になる場面ではかなり重要。ただし、レスタエフェクトアンプリファイの効果が適用されるのは自分のみで、レスタフィールドで他人を回復しても効果は通常のまま。 ▼ FoBo FoBo 有効なスキル ディフィートアンプリファイ 属性関連スキル ジェットブーツ関係 ジェットインテンシティ シュツルムジーカー ジェットブーツエレメントセット 組み合わせの特徴 重複するスキルをバウンサー側で習得することで、フォース側のスキルポイントを節約できる バータブロット、ゾンデクラッド等 ジェットブーツに関しても相性が良い。 隙だらけな代わりに無消費で高い火力を出すことが可能なジェットインテンシティをボスのダウン時に叩き込み、更に追撃でシュツルムジーカーを使うことで、フォースの不得手なダウン時火力を補った上でPPを大回復できる。 これにより敵のダウン中以外でもフォトンフレア＋PPコンバートを遠慮なく使うことができ、総合的な火力の向上になる。 非派生フィアースウェイブも、動作が非常に短く高DPSの設置技であることに加えて属性追撃でテクニックスキルのカウントが進むのも見逃せない。相手が動いているとフルヒットは難しいのでインテンシティ前に設置しておくと無駄がない。 また、ロッドとブーツのマルチウェポンではパリィ前にフィアースウェイブを設置しておくことで属性追撃＋エレメンタルバレット＋テクニック自身で高速のカウント稼ぎが可能。 非派生フィアースウェイブはノンチャージテクニック以上に隙がないので、大型の敵に対してはかなり使いやすいセットプレイ。 テクニックドミネーションの追加によりダウン時火力が大幅に向上したが、フォトンフレアと併用できないタイミングでは、 属性にもよるがジェットインテンシティを僅かに超えるか及ばない程度の火力になる。 フォトンフレア＆PPコンバートがリキャスト中の時のPPの節約や、属性ダウン時に高い威力と物理ダウン値を両立させる手段という意味ではまだ便利。 ダウン中のサージングインパルス+ジェットインテンシティのDPSを超える属性は氷属性と闇属性だが、共に消費PPが多い属性なのでダウン時の残りPPでブーツとテクニックどちらを使うか判断すると良い。 当然の事ながらフォトンフレア使用中はブーツよりもテクニックの方がDPSは高くなる。 ジェットブーツをメインで扱いたいという場合、エレメンタルディクラインを機能させるため素直にバウンサーをメインクラスにしたほうが良い。 ▼ FoWa FoWa 有効なスキル オールドフレンズレスキュー ウェルフェアマネジメント ラッキーサイン レスタエフェクトコンティニュエンス 組み合わせの特徴 FoHuと同じく耐久面を強化する組み合わせ。 HPが低いFoはオールドフレンズレスキューの条件を満たしやすく便利。レスタフィールドとラッキーサインの相性も中々。 ウェルフェアマネジメントも悪くは無いが効果は大きくはない。レスタエフェクトコンティニュエンスはPPコンバートによる微ダメージの回復に適してはいるが大ダメージからの復帰が難しくなる点に要注意。 Foは優秀な遠距離、範囲攻撃を多く持つためタクトを持つ利点は少なく、マルメロ関連スキルが利用できないのが厳しい。 ▼ FoSl FoSl 有効なスキル クリティカルアップ ギャラントアタッククリティカルアップ クリティカルヒットPPゲイン 組み合わせの特徴 汎用的に火力の増強が見込める組み合わせ。 サブクラスではクリティカルアップ系スキルは全て合わせても5%しか上がらないが、時と場合を選ばず発動するため汎用性が高い。プリセット能力に フィクサ・テルミナ がついていればなお強力。 クリティカルヒットPPゲインはヒット数が多いギ・ザン、Cグランツ辺りが好相性か。バースト時はただでさえPPが溢れるためあまり利点は無い。 ガンスラッシュを持つならばやはりSlFoの方がよい。 ▲ ▼ フォースのEXスタイル ▼ アドラス アドラス まず選択しない組み合わせ。 ロッドでも武器アクションで攻撃を防いだ時のリターンが少なく(タリスに至ってはほぼ皆無)、アドラスパーフェクションとの相性が最悪クラス。 ▼ ブリッツ ブリッツ 同テクニック3連打の機会は非常に多いが、ヒット数稼ぎは特定の属性以外あまり得意ではない。 光＞雷＞炎風＞闇＞＞氷くらいの関係性。 セレストと特に相性が良いこともあって、こちらも敢えて選択することはあまりない組み合わせと思われる。 ▼ セレスト セレスト フォースを意識して組まれたEXスタイルと言ってもよく、基本はセレストとの組み合わせになる。 セレストリエイテレーション対応スキルは複合テクニック3種およびトリッキーキャパシタ。 大抵は複合テクで発動する事になるだろう。PB・ABを除くとフォースの主な火力源自体が敵ダウン時か複合テクかといった感じなので、リキャスト短縮+ゲージ返還の恩恵はかなり大きい。 セレストフローレス対応攻撃はタリス展開時含めたテクニック全般と上記アクティブスキル。 チャージ中はもちろん、猶予が短くなるとはいえノンチャージ版の出始めでも発動できるので、こちらも無理なく組み込んでいけるだろう。 加えてロッド装備時ならエレメンタルバレットもストックされるため恩恵がかなり大きい。 ただし、セレストフローレスによる無効化だとロッドリアクトアドバンスが発動しないので直後のテクニック発動には注意が必要。 属性によって幾らか差があるが、ダウン値稼ぎも非常に得意なのでもちろんブラストエコー・トリガーアタックとの相性も最上級。 ▲ ▼ サブクラスとしてのフォース PPコンバート、PPリカバリーアップとキリングPPゲインによる圧倒的なPP回収効率の上昇が魅力。 テクニックを使用できないメインクラスでもテクニックによる遠距離攻撃ができるようになる(要ロッドorタリス)他、属性ダウンを狙うことができる。 しかしボス相手に属性ダウンを狙うとなると終始テクニックを撃ち続けるという状況に陥ってしまいがち。 テクニック主体で戦うなら当然テク使用可能クラスをメインに設定した方が良いので、状況判断は必要。 ゾンデやザンが比較的対雑魚戦用の範囲攻撃として使いやすいためPP回収効率上昇のついでとしては豪華なおまけとなる。 タリスPAも有用。サブクラスではPP面が少し心もとないが瞬間的な範囲火力としてはこの上なく強力。また武器アクションによるPP回収も魅力。 However, in the combination of simple area attack + PP recovery, the gunner can also play a similar role, albeit with a difference in specific weight, so which one is better depends on the class and strategy. Even in classes that can originally use techniques, you can save skill points by transferring common technique-related skills such as Foie Brand to subclasses. Multi Weapon Related If you select a class that can use techniques as a subclass and incorporate the legal weapon that can be equipped by that class into the multi weapon, you will be able to use techniques even with weapon types that cannot normally use techniques. See the multi-weapon page for details. If Tallis is installed, PP recovery efficiency can be further increased with weapon action (+Float Torchka Multi-Lock). If you incorporate a rod, you will be able to parry even with weapon types that do not have a guard action. If you have acquired Elemental Bullet, you can also counter from a distance. ▲ ▼ Comments [Past logs] Vol1 | Vol2 | Vol3 Displaying the latest 20 items. See comment page Hide image Masquerade is definitely easier and faster if you use another class -- 2025-01-15 (Wednesday) 19:49:30 It's a bit troublesome to gruntskale with warp, and it often becomes non-chapary, so the firepower decreases -- 2025-01-15 (Wednesday) 20:56:26 As expected, it's faster to play Masquerader in a class you're familiar with. In any case, the advantages and disadvantages of each class will disappear as you get deeper into the game. -- 2025-01-18 (Sat) 07:07:08 I wonder how long they're going to let us play handicap battles without long range. Without LRA, I can only get DPS 370 even if I repeatedly hit NC Gigra with a rod? It's time to revise the skill to a set that permanently increases power and reduces hate. Te is good after all, right? -- 2025-01-19 (Sun) 00:29:56 The current Fo is strong enough without the long range. -- 2025-01-19 (Sun) 01:52:54 Wands are melee weapons. It's no longer possible to compare it with Fo -- 2025-01-19 (Sun) 08:58:27 Well, it's not a class that just hits regular techniques repeatedly, and its time is near the top of the record, so it's strong even without long range. If you want to use it in multiplayer mode, sub-Ra is an option that increases the power by 15% -- 2025-01-19 (Sun) 15:09:55 It's true that it can't be compared to a wand, but the rod is also a melee weapon. If you're just throwing away tech, your firepower will still be at the bottom -- 2025-01-19 (Sun) 15:15:31 ＞Edge 3 Personally, I think it would be better to increase the number of subclass options in Dazzle Stealth. Sub-Bo is still strong when it comes to knocking down opponents, and it's also fun to spin around with sub-Te. Well, if it's a stray, it may penetrate through the dazzle and take the target... -- 2025-01-20 (Mon) 10:25:55 The next one will come during the tech motion that is simply Gigra parry. Impossible -- 2025-01-20 (Mon) 00:37:49 If you parry with NC Gigra T2, you have no choice but to immediately cancel it with weapon Acparry. The lack of LRA is a bottleneck because it is repeated until composite and impact are accumulated. Well, there's no one who does it with Fo -- 2025-01-20 (Mon) 14:18:29 If you look at the no-hit video in the corner, you'll see that he doesn't use parries other than Ki bullets -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 22:09:00 There seems to be a bug where PP recovery of Flare is canceled if you consume PP at the moment you use Photon Flare. Please report to management. -- 2025-01-20 (Monday) 11:35:54 What should I do when attacks like Dallion's continuous punches have no impact? Can you deal with it by alternating Gigra and Weapon Aku? Or would it be better to just keep a distance and shoot with techniques? -- 2025-01-23 (Thu) 17:27:57 It's best to just keep your distance and fight at a distance where you can't get hit by punches. Basically, all you have to do is shoot the cube and bounce the main body's attacks with Hikari Tech T2 inside the circle. -- 2025-01-23 (Thursday) 17:49:52 You can easily handle it with the loop of weapon Aku C-gra. The options are in the lower category though -- 2025-01-24 (Fri) 18:56:53 Well, Dallion, who is an overwhelming counter gamer, and Fo are not compatible in the first place -- 2025-01-24 (Fri) 19:54:04 Fo destroyed the melee! We were all excited, but it was just that Souras was a good match. Because Dallion's SlBoFi is rampant~ -- 2025-01-24 (Fri) 20:10:59 Even if Dallion's attributes are down, he won't ride Techdom. It is fatally incompatible with Fo, which generates firepower with Techdom -- 2025-01-24 (Fri) 20:19:02 "Specifications have been changed so that the altitude will not increase when attacking in the air" → The altitude will not increase and will now retreat. I didn't notice it because I didn't have a chance to hit it repeatedly, but I guess I did something unnecessary again -- 2025-02-05 (Wed) 22:14:10 It's the usual thing, so I'll shut up and reject it. -- 2025-02-05 (Wed) 23:28:38 I suddenly became interested in how other people use Rod Attack Impact, so I was wondering if everyone could tell me how they use it. ① For counter use only. I don't care if it is reloaded with some remaining bullets. 2. Use it up as soon as it is loaded. 3. Mainly use it for countering, but use up any remaining bullets before reloading. By the way, I am a general ①. -- 2025-02-27 (Thursday) 09:11:51 The ideal is ③ as it is generally more powerful than any technique except when down. ② might be better for Flame Light, which has a counter in the technique itself, but for some reason I feel like it's sometimes used for continuous counters. In particular, it may be used to collect PP outside of Flare Comba, so ① may not be as good -- 2025-02-27 (Thu) 11:13:12 When down, it's 2, and normally it's 3. Also, if I'm thinking, ``Is it about to go down?'', I sometimes force myself to hit repeatedly. If you're fully loaded with 6 shots, it's probably better to fire repeatedly while the enemy is down, but if you use 2 or 3 shots, you'll use up the energy and prepare for the next reload. -- 2025-02-28 (Fri) 09:42:01 Isn't it a waste to have an impact that doesn't hit Domine when you're down? -- 2025-02-28 (Fri) 10:37:40 What should I do between the opening of Wael and the start of Bitanbitan? Should I shoot Noncha Grants? -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 09:25:26 Would you like to have a performance? For the first move of the opening, I jumped to relax and put NC Gizo, but I don't know if it's hitting -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 15:46:29 When the DPS is measured, it's hitting -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 17:20:28 I tried using the trigger, but NC Gizo isn't hitting -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 20:50:26 I was shooting Noncha Grants -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 17:21:06 It's the same with Tector, but the Force also received a miraculous divine adjustment...I really feel it when I use it -- 2025-03-08 (Sat) 08:53:56 I think I got a good adjustment, but it's a bit subtle compared to Techter's, it's just that Techter's adjustment is too good. In the end, what I can do and what I can do hasn't changed at all. -- 2025-03-08 (Sat) 12:30:55 The adjustment of the techter (and wand) was the best in the history of PSO2 to NGS, so compare it with that... I was able to put it in a good position with good force, so I'm very satisfied -- 2025-03-08 (Sat) 12:54:16 I wish they would add parry SE when the rod impact is successful... -- 2025-03-08 (Sat) 14:47:26 To be honest, I want Technique Avenge. It's cunning that only Hu has the meaning of charging. -- 2025-06-02 (Monday) 12:09:28 As a result of the other classes receiving crash adjustments in quick succession, it has returned to its usual position -- 2025-08-10 (Sunday) 16:19:00 PP conversion has become like over-emphasis, which can be activated at any time, although there is almost no benefit... -- 2025-04-10 (Thu) 17:43:27 Carefully read the description of the skill Force Technique Short Charge. -- 2025-04-10 (Thu) 22:01:38 I read it, but I didn't think it had any meaning? -- 2025-04-11 (Fri) 10:12:41 Huh...? ? ? -- 2025-04-11 (Friday) 16:32:02 Ah, then read the last part of the PP conversion skill description on this page -- 2025-04-11 (Friday) 16:33:01 Even after reading the explanations of Force Technique Short Charge and PP conversion, unlike Photon Flare, PP conversion can be done at any time (even during attack motion or in an inoperable state) )I don't really understand why it's possible to activate it? -- 2025-04-11 (Friday) 17:26:05 Maybe it's useful because you can activate it when the cooldown of PP conversion ends during an attack and put it into a 0F short charge state? -- 2025-04-11 (Fri) 17:32:40 ...I don't know if you just want to fish and respond, but it would have been better if you just said the red part from the beginning.The way you wrote the tree and branches at the beginning could be seen as claiming that there is almost no benefit from FTSC. Both sides of the argument don't agree with each other. -- 2025-04-11 (Friday) 17:59:48 I never thought there would be someone who would say, "They claim that there are almost no benefits from FTSC," so I learned a lot from you. -- 2025-04-11 (Friday) 21:15:39 It's better to just tell them the answer without educating them one by one -- 2025-04-18 (Friday) 17:33:14 I was able to activate any motion from the time it was implemented -- 2025-04-11 (Fri) 00:03:08 I seriously didn't know that it was possible to activate it even when frozen or restrained from the time it was implemented, thank you -- 2025-04-11 (Fri) 10:13:39 I thought it was just my imagination, but it was actually designed to be activated in any situation. I wish Photon Flare would have the same specifications because it feels good to use. -- 2025-04-18 (Fri) 16:02:04 This is fine for all active skills that don't have activation motions. -- 2025-04-23 (Wed) 17:57:42 How do you do the rod impact counter? Should I cover the enemy's attack with a rod impact? -- 2025-04-23 (Wed) 08:54:58 That's correct. When attacked by Rod Impact's GP, Elemental Bullets are stocked, and since the impact itself is a technique that fires Elebare, the stocked amount is immediately fired. -- 2025-04-23 (Wednesday) 19:58:12 Isn't the biggest problem with the Force now that it starts to produce firepower and loses its firepower because it takes away hate? Quite seriously. Unlike other long-range classes, it is also difficult to use sub-Ra. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 14:16:24 There are times when it can't be covered, but dazzle camouflage is almost essential. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 14:51:06 Isn't it possible to switch subclasses in multiplayer (both fixed and wild) and solo? If it's a solo type, it won't work long range. -- 2025-05-14 (Wednesday) 07:06:08 If you watch the TA videos of the serious guys, it's okay because in the end it's nowhere near the class that can produce firepower with counter attacks. If you do a simple calculation of Masquerade 10-10 clear time conversion, even a serious Fo won't be able to produce even 3/4 of the firepower compared to other classes. Even if you take a target at a wild level and your long range is disabled, it won't be difficult to clear. -- 2025-06-09 (Mon) 11:48:07 With Dazzle Stealth FoBo, if you go to the current red emergency or permanent mode, you may sometimes get targeted, but it just extends the clear time a little. In the first place, you could have guessed it from the time Tazuru Stealth was penetrated. However, I do get irritated when there are people swinging swords and parti around lol -- 2025-06-09 (Mon) 15:46:38 A refreshing and refreshing example... wonderful -- 2025-06-11 (Wed) 13:32:55 Sorry, it's almost difficult to clear if you're a stray Wael and all the people around you aren't Ra or anything and you're taking targets -- 2025-06-13 (Fri) 12:44:58 Eh, are you going with Wael Fo...? -- 2025-06-13 (Fri) 14:06:13 It is true that I am not suitable for receiving such criticism. So let's continue to submit requests for reinforcement -- 2025-06-13 (Fri) 17:00:44 He was top class in Souras, so it's a good match after all -- 2025-07-09 (Wed) 17:32:55 It's likely to be criticized by the residents here, but I can't deny that the long range itself is distorted, and I personally think that Fo (especially the rod) could have been better by simply increasing the firepower with a counter. -- 2025-06-14 (Sat) 06:36:01 Regardless of the residents here, the power of Ereba has remained the same since the start of the service, and since Tech's guard point was added with Techcus instead of skill, the management has a strong will to never give counter firepower to Fo, so there is nothing that can be done -- 2025-06-14 (Sat) 15:03:11 Even if we put aside the actual situation, it would be a lot more distorted for the magic class at the back to take counters and fight, and long range would be completely legitimate.If it weren't for the NGS system -- 2025-07-02 (Wed) 15:13:37 It's been said many times, but don't force counters on Fo at the initial Aerio! At least make your HP decent! There were a lot of opinions, so please think about it with that in mind -- 2025-07-10 (Thursday) 11:28:30 Firepower is a trade-off, but if it's not a counter, then what kind of trade-off should you make? -- 2025-07-10 (Thursday) 14:48:48 The wizard class is a close-quarters battle and mainly uses counter attacks. Which RPG wizard did you look at and make such adjustments? That's extremely stupid, so if you want to do it now, why don't you approach it and counter it? -- 2025-07-10 (Thursday) 14:49:58 I'm glad that the difference in firepower with other classes continues to widen and there are fewer hate attacks -- 2025-08-08 (Friday) 00:42:26 If the rotation speed of Limibre is allowed, I wonder if Photon Flare and Massive Hunter could also be recast for about 90 seconds... -- 2025-08-12 (Tue) 17:18:20 Limibre has some risks, but it might be a good idea to request the addition of a cooldown reduction to the extension. In the first place, considering the results of other class adjustments and readjustments, I think Fo should also be requested to readjust. -- 2025-08-12 (Tue) 22:46:36 As a result of the reinforcement of other classes leaving Slayer behind, we are back to a state where we are left behind a little. Since there are more things to do, it is not as good as before, and it is still in the category of a long-distance job that can fight safely...I would like to hear one more comment. That's exactly what new skills are for main force, such as flare CT, strengthening extensions, and shortening the CT of compound techniques. On the other hand, I think that's enough. -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 09:31:24 This week's ARCS record will give you a good idea of ​​the current class balance -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 13:07:40 I don't think the current record is content that shows balance. -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 14:01:55 In the end, it was just that Fo was extremely compatible with Souras -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 14:06:15 Could you please tell me specifically why I can't see a balance in the quest that competes for the speed of annihilation of a group of small fish, a boss, a group of small fish x 2, a boss + several small fish, and a boss x 2? -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 19:17:54 HP is low overall, there are almost only multiple opponents, there are multiple PB signs = the importance of PB increases, there is time on the board between battles = the impact of recasting decreases. No matter how you look at it, it's special. -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 19:32:13 It's the same composition as the preferential quest when renovating ManmaFo -- 2025-08-13 (Wed) 20:07:38 The arrangement is different because the record is for solo use -- 2025-08-14 (Thu) 03:36:22 I didn't expect it to change so drastically. Even so, my HP has drastically decreased and this is no longer helpful. -- 2025-08-14 (Thursday) 13:15:20 The living part almost ends with just skill PB -- 2025-08-14 (Thursday) 14:29:35 By the way, is it by design that the cooldown time of PP combination does not advance while you are on the first board of the limited time quest? Photon Flare's cooldown advances even while riding normally, so you can use Flare at the first contact with the enemy, but you can't use PP combo -- 2025-08-15 (Fri) 14:08:48 The same goes for the board in Qvaris's field. Photon Flare's cool time advances while riding, but PP conversion does not -- 2025-08-15 (Fri) 14:22:39 Maybe it has something to do with the presence or absence of the activation motion at the beginning of PSO2 or the timing of correction -- 2025-08-17 (Sun) 09:40:21 I checked the active skills of all classes, but Comba was the only one whose cooldown did not advance when on the board. -- 2025-08-17 (Sun) 18:31:36 Verification B. Isn't this already a problem? You can rush to inquiries with peace of mind -- 2025-08-17 (Sun) 18:46:50 Confirmed that the cooldown time of PP Comba does not advance even if you use your bare hands to open the relation quest on the first and second day -- 2025-11-22 (Sat) 17:43:47 Isn't Photon Flare going to ride on Tricky Capacitor? Is the impact bad? -- 2025-08-18 (Mon) 02:41:50 As stated in Flare's description, all attacks using that weapon are used, so Capacitor is also used. -- 2025-08-18 (Mon) 02:58:34 Technique Domination is the one who doesn't use it. -- 2025-08-18 (Mon) 03:03:57 ↑Thank you for the two child trees, so I guess it's overwhelmingly stronger when used on the Fo side.Talis -- 2025-08-18 (Mon) 03:27:25 Afterblast had no photon flare extension effect. -- 2025-10-05 (Sun) 03:06:39 I used Blitz as my main EX style, and I used Adras for the permanent Wael at first, but I ended up switching back to Blitz. I haven't used Celeste since I turned it to 30 because it was troublesome to conserve it while keeping in mind the activation of Reateration. -- 2025-10-07 (Tue) 21:32:17 I don't know how to generate firepower ＿( _´ω`)_ -- 2025-10-10 (Fri) 22:25:30 When fighting around, I try to figure out the charging time and try to charge as quickly as possible, and generally don't use parries. This alone makes a big difference. If it's a real story about not being able to clear Vael Solo, all I can say is that Suman should look for a video at his own level. -- 2025-10-14 (Tue) 18:06:05 Huh? It's a super infight with a parry premise, but it's different! ? ! ? -- 2025-10-14 (Tue) 18:31:48 Parries are not a plus, so use impact, gifoie, and various custom parries to get it. -- 2025-10-14 (Tue) 19:06:26 I see. I'll take a look at the weapon palette. Advice-san Kyuu -- Kinu ? 2025-10-17 (Fri) 20:00:35 Old: Fo is a class that unleashes techniques while countering (that way has more firepower) Now: There have been adjustments to the combat class, so Fo doesn't have to actively aim for counters.But what exactly happened, and what caused the phenomenon in the past and now? You don't have to aim for a counter = just keep your distance and dodge! →...What should I do about your avoidance P skill? ? So, I'm in a state of confusion @@; By the way, I'm slowly coming back after a few years (before the hiatus, I only played up to the beginning of the story) -- 2025-10-20 (Mon) 20:04:44 Please stop the line breaks (fixed). The reason counters were needed in the past was probably to recover PP. There are now more ways to recover PP, so if you make full use of them, you can manage your PP. However, if you use guard points (Gifoie, various Techkas, Impact, etc.) to receive enemy attacks, you can increase your firepower as a counter, so aiming for that will give you more firepower (Gifo has always been strong with this). ...I think it would be difficult for a self-proclaimed Kinu who doesn't have an evasion PS, so I think it would be better to take Obscure form in sub-Ra in multiplayer, or use EXOP's Dazzle Camouflage and use techniques repeatedly without taking targets. If you're going to do solo content...good luck! -- 2025-10-21 (Tue) 10:11:42 When there was only Airio, it was a counter premise, but when Ritem was implemented, the power of the technique was completely strengthened and the gap with the counter was narrowed. (HP also increases) However, the advantages mentioned by Mr. Ogi 1 remain, so if you are doing a solo quest, please aim for it. If you can't avoid it, you can just play with a class that doesn't mind being hit -- 2025-10-21 (Tue) 20:30:19 Always aim for counters, but avoid using weapon attack counters (parries) as much as possible. This has not changed ever since the NC Gifo counter was discovered. -- 2025-11-21 (Fri) 01:41:23 Fo history is still short, I've come to understand something about light, darkness, and ice when dealing with bosses, but I don't understand anything else, so please give me some advice. Flame → Charge Gifo (Cast 2) Wind → Noncha Gizan → Charge Gizan Lightning → Noncha Sonde (Cast 1) → Charge Sonde Is this basically correct? -- 2025-11-13 (Thursday) 08:53:22 If you succeed in rod parry like Elemental Bullet Charge Plus, stock up on 2 bullets at once! I want something -- 2025-11-13 (Thu) 19:13:46 Elebarre itself hasn't been strengthened in any way yet ~ I'd be happy if the more you hit, the more the composite recast decreases ~ Before that, hit it and increase the composite gauge -- 2025-12-02 (Tue) 19:34:38 ​​It would be nice if you could accumulate 5 rod impacts every time you successfully parry. -- 2026-01-18 (Sun) 18:57:55 How many shots should I shoot in a quest where the current rod's weaknesses are mixed up? -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 22:12:53 If you want to deal with small fish, you can use Sonde, Range Megiddo, or Range C Foie -- 2026-02-05 (Thu) 05:39:17 Tallis. -- 2026-02-06 (Friday) 19:47:00 There is still no La-type technique, or rather, there is not even a single technique added... I want to shoot Labata -- 2026-05-09 (Sat) 14:47:46 Name: Cancel attachment Delete key: Please refrain from making comments that violate public order and morals (incitement, slander, discriminatory expressions, obscene expressions, etc.). Also, line breaks are generally not recommended. Avoid unnecessary line breaks. For more information, see About the comment field. Please go to the Chat Bulletin Board for chats, the Complaint Bulletin Board for various complaints, the Consultation Bulletin Board for consultations about equipment, etc., and the official website for adjustment ideas and requests.

