
=== [Gunner Class Skills & Data] ===
=== REFRESH NODE: 2026-06-12 04:20:37 UTC ===
Gunner HTML ConvertTime 0.439 sec. Class (Add-on Skill) Hunter (Hu) Fighter (Fi) Ranger (Ra) Gunner (Gu) Force (Fo) Tector (Te) Braver (Br) Bouncer (Bo) Waker (Wa) Slayer (Sl) EX Style Adrus Blitz Celeste ▼ Open Table of Contents Table of Contents Overview Class Skills Chain Trigger Chain Trigger Quick Reload Chain Finish Advance Chain Finish PP Save Chain Finish Party PP Gain Hail of Bullets Amplify Chain Boost Chain Trigger Increase Chain Boost Advance Chain Trigger Count Retain Attack PP Recovery Overwelm Dodge PP Gain Slow Landing Attack Gu Slow Landing Charge Gu Long Range Advantage Gu Stylish Roll Arts Stylish Roll Strike Back Strike Back Advance Stylish Roll Counter Bullet Rising Drive T Machine Gun Another Arts PP Save Hail of Bullets Stylish Onslaught Spread Shot Spread Shot Quick Escape Class skills to be implemented in the future Gunner's subclass Gunner's EX style Gunner as a subclass Comments Overview The official abbreviation is Gu (Gu nner). It can be equipped with two types of weapons: an assault rifle (PA) that is good at medium-range attacks, and a twin machine gun (PA) that has high evasion and is good at short- to medium-range attacks. Due to his special skills, he will basically be using twin machine guns as his main weapon. However, the main class correction will also be applied to assault rifle related skills that can only be used as a sub-ranger. (Rifle Grenadier, etc.) A class with excellent mobility and evasive power that makes full use of twin machine guns, and can deal high damage at short to medium range. It is good at short range where the Twin Machine Gun's damage bonus is greatest due to its distance aptitude, but it can do sufficient damage up to medium range. In addition, it is able to use area attack PA with excellent tech arts customization and homing dart of assault rifle, so it is strong against multiple battles and can respond to a wide range of situations such as close, medium, and range. The most distinctive feature is the class skill Chain Trigger, which increases the number of chains by attacking during activation, and by finally applying Charge PA, it is possible to generate a chain finish that exhibits extremely high damage and down value. By using this chain finish, it is possible to exert damage and down value that exceeds that of Photon Blast, so the key to firepower is how to effectively generate chain finish in conjunction with the powerful active skill Hail of Bullets. In terms of counters, its characteristics are different from other classes, and it has special counter behavior tied to chain triggers, such as earning the number of chains with the Stylish Roll Counter Bullet that is activated when an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action, and aiming for even higher chain finishing damage by activating the Stylish Roll Strike Back, which is stocked by the successful nullification of an attack by a weapon action, at the time of a chain finish. In a multiplayer environment, the selling point is the DPS role, which can consistently demonstrate extremely high firepower due to the increased power due to the long range advantage and the aforementioned high response and attack abilities. However, due to the slow initial response due to the chain boost specification and the inability to apply the long range advantage, the performance is modest in boss tieman type content that ends in a short time such as various duels and arc records. Also, if you can continue attacking at your own pace, you will be able to exert great power, but if you lose your pace by missing the chain finisher, which is the key to your firepower, your attacks tend to become sloppy. Although it has overall high performance, it has many characteristics that are different from other classes, and it can be said that it is a class for intermediate players and above, as it requires some getting used to. Gunner as a subclass Gunner's EX style Gunner's subclass Comments ▲ ▼ Class skills "Yellow background color" is a skill added on January 31, 2024 Chain Trigger Attack PP Recovery Overwelm Dodge PP Gain Slow Landing Attack Gu Slow Landing Charge Gu Hail of Bullets Stylish Onslaught Rising Drive T Machine Gun Another Arts PP Save Long Range Advantage Gu Chain Trigger Quick Reload Chain Boost Chain Trigger Count Retain Stylish Roll Arts Spread Shot Chain Finish Advance Chain Trigger Increase Chain Boost Advance Stylish Roll Strike Back Stylish Roll Counter Bullet Spread Shot Quick Escape Chain Finish PP Save Hail of Bullets Amplify Chain Finish Party PP Gain Strike Back Advance Red letters are skills exclusive to the main class. Skill points can only be earned when clearing Trainier for the first time, and can be used by all classes. The current maximum skill point is 47. (=Aerio 20SP + Ritem 10SP + Kuvaris 10SP + Steer 7SP) ▼ Adjustment/Revision History 2023/06/07 Update Added class skill "Hail of Bullets Amplify" 2022/12/07 Update Added class skill "Chain Trigger Increase" Added class skill "Hail of Bullets" Added class skill "Chain Finish Advance" Added class skill "Chain Finish PP Save" 2022/06/08 Added class skill "Chain Trigger Count Retain" Added class skill "Stylish Roll Counter Bullet" Added class skill "T Machine Gun Another Arts PP Save" Added class skill "T Machine Gun Another Arts PP Save" 2021/12/15 Added class skill "Dodge PP Gain" Added class skill "Chain Boost Advance" Added class skill "Rising Drive" Added class skill "Strike Back Advance" ▲ ▼ Chain Trigger Activates by hitting an enemy with charged PA, and for a certain period of time, the number of chains increases each time you hit an attack. In this state, if you hit the charged PA again, a chain finish will be activated that increases the damage dealt for a certain period of time depending on the number of chains. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 - - Chain counting and chain finishing only apply to attacks with twin machine guns. Attacks with other weapon types, including weapons added with multi-weapons, are completely excluded. A chain count starts by hitting the charged PA of the twin machine guns, and from then on, the count increases by the number of hits with various attacks from the twin machine guns. The counting time is 30 seconds, and when the remaining time is running low, the count display will blink. The upper limit of the count is 100. The count is based on the number of hits regardless of the enemy or part, and attacks that hit containers, ore, trial transport trucks, etc. are also counted. If you hit Charge PA again while the count is displayed, Chain Finish will be activated. When Chain Finish is activated, the count display will change to yellow, and a damage bonus will be given to attacks at the time of finishing and attacks during the period when the count is yellow. Power multiplier is base multiplier 150% + 1% added for each chain. At count 100, it becomes 250% (2.5x damage). When acquiring "Chain Trigger Increase", the count is 150 and it is 350%. A 15 second recast occurs when Chain Finish is activated. Recasting can be shortened by learning the "Chain Trigger Quick Reload" described below. If the reception time passes without finishing, the recast will not occur, and you can immediately start the chain by hitting Charge PA again. The power increase during chain finishing does not apply to Photon Blast and Hail of Bullets. Also, most attacks using gimmicks on the field are not targeted. On the other hand, there are some gimmicks such as Sky Charger and Plasma Trap that have an exceptional chain finish correction, and if utilized, they become extremely powerful attack methods. Due to the adjustment in 2025/8, the effect of chain finish now also affects the down value. A key skill for twin machine guns. In addition to the large number of derived skills, With the exception of some attacks, the firepower has been adjusted to depend on this skill, so you can't start without using this skill first. For specific combo examples during chain finishing, see here. Considering the balance with various skills, the conventional wisdom was that the firepower efficiency would be improved if Chain Finish was activated at around 100 counts, but after the adjustment on August 6, 2025, Chain Finish at around 150 can now produce higher DPS. For this reason, unless you are already in a situation where you have around 150 chains, you can say that Hail of Bullets can be used immediately as soon as the gauge is filled and there is no problem. This is because Hail of Bullets has a slightly long cooldown, so even if you save it, you won't be able to activate it in time for Chain Trigger's CT to end. It's basically better to finish after activating Stylish Roll Strike Back, but you need to be careful if it seems like it will take more than a few seconds from reaching count 150 to take Strike Back. Make early decisions. Considering the balance with Hail of Bullets, which is another key to firepower, and Hail of Bullets Amplify, which has a certain effect regardless of the count, when dealing with an opponent who leaves the battle area for a long time of ten seconds or more, such as in the second half of Dark Falz Souras, it is effective to perform a chain finish without missing even if the count is moderate. Recasting takes at least 2 seconds from the end of the finish. (When learning "Chain Trigger Quick Reload". If you take into account the charging time of the chain starting PA, it's actually less than 1.5 seconds) It's pretty easy to judge what to do during this recast. Since Cloth Bullet has been greatly strengthened, it is basically a stable choice to have a charged version of Cloth Bullet in between. For higher firepower options, sub-rangers might consider a rifle grenade or spread shot. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Changed so that the chain finish down value increases according to the number of chains. 2021/12/15 Fixed a bug where attacks other than twin machine guns could start or end chains, or increase the number of chains. 2021/10/13 The power of Chain Finish has been revised upward. Recast time reduced from 30 seconds to 15 seconds. 2021/06/09 Fixed an issue where the chain trigger could not be used with multi-weapons based on other weapons with twin machine guns added. Corrected a bug where the effect of the chain trigger would be activated by a PA other than the twin machine gun when using a multi-weapon based on the twin machine gun. ▲ ▼ Chain Trigger Quick Reload Shortens the time until Chain Trigger can be used again after Chain Finish is activated, depending on the number of chains. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 - - Reduced by 0.1 seconds per chain count. With 100 chains and 15-(0.1 x 100), the recast time will be 5.0 seconds. Shortening will stop at 100 chains, and will not be shortened any further after 101 chains. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2021/10/13 The recast reduction time per chain has been revised downward from 0.25 seconds to 0.1 seconds. *If combined with the Chain Trigger recast time adjustment, this will be an upward adjustment compared to before the adjustment. ▲ ▼ Chain Finish Advance Chain Finish Invincibility time occurs when activated. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 3 seconds When Chain Finish is activated, there will be a long invincibility period until the Chain Finish count character disappears. Basically, the invincibility time occurs at the same time as the finish is activated, but due to network lag, the occurrence of each finish may be delayed. When you feel that there is a lag, it is not recommended to use this skill as an attack to match the enemy's attack. In this case, the best way to take advantage of this is to be careful with your first finishing blow, and then use your invincibility time to be bold. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/01/25 Fixed a bug where the effect ends when performing some actions such as stepping or jumping while the effect is being applied. ▲ ▼ Chain Finish PP Save After Chain Finish is activated, PP consumption will be reduced for a certain period of time. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Effect time 3 seconds PP consumption 75% 50% 25% Since it is the "consumption amount after Chain Finish is activated", of course the PP consumption of the PA used to activate Chain Finish remains the same. However, if you are at Lv3, you will be able to complete the chain finish without any problems even if you only have 30 to 40 PP left, making PP management much easier. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/01/25 Fixed a bug where the effect ends when performing some actions such as stepping or jumping while the effect is being applied ▲ ▼ Chain Finish Party PP Gain Implemented on January 31, 2024 When Chain Finish is activated, recovers the PP of characters in the same party other than yourself according to the number of chains. *Main class/Twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 Recovery amount when 99 chains or less +10 Recovery amount when 119 chains or less +50 Recovery amount when 149 chains or less +75 Recovery amount when 150 chains +150 The first support skill for gunners that is effective only when forming a PT. When you earn a lot of chains, the more chains you earn, the more PP you can supply to the three PT members. When thinking about effective use, it is better to be aware of the movement of the party, such as cutting chains exceeding 100 when there are 3 to 4 party members and the party members are consuming a lot of PP, or earning more when all the members are ready to launch a full-power attack, such as right before a various knockdown. After strengthening Chain Trigger Increase, 150 Chain End has also become extremely powerful, so it has good synergy with this skill. It is worth considering if you consider the ability to support PT. However, even if you are too conscious of this skill and forcefully increase the number of chains, if the finishing rotation rate decreases, the number of activations of DPS and PP gain will decrease, and you will be missing the point. Basically, it is better to finish at a timing that is convenient for you and to consider PP recovery as a bonus. If you go to the battle section for the purpose of PSE burst, you can easily aim for a finish with 150 chains, but it seems that there are not many opportunities to particularly need this skill. (There is a common understanding that PP recovery can be covered by Fo skill's Killing PP Gain and EXOP's EX Enemy Feld PP Gain) In conclusion, this skill is expected to be useful in boss quests where there are few substitutes for PP recovery methods, progressive quests with wide fields dotted with enemies, and defense quests. ▲ ▼ Hail of Bullets Amplify Implemented on June 7, 2023 After Chain Finish is activated, the amount of Hail of Bullets gauge accumulated will increase for a certain period of time. *Main class/Twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 3 seconds Gauge accumulation rate 350% This skill is activated at the same time as Chain Finish is activated. The effect duration of 3 seconds is the same as the chain finishing duration, so it is a skill that greatly increases the gauge accumulation rate of attacks during finishing. The rotation efficiency of Hail of Bullets has been greatly increased, and if you combine it with a step counter that collects a large amount, there will be times when the gauge will fill up a little earlier than the recast time. If you use Counter Bullet + Strikeback PA or other weapon types for counters, you will barely be able to accumulate enough before and after the recast is completed. If you build up the gauge with this skill, you will be able to activate Hail of Bullets every loop even if the chain reaches 100. The accuracy of attacks during chain finishing becomes more important than ever, but overall it can be said to be a skill that greatly contributes to long-term firepower and PP efficiency in battle. ▲ ▼ Chain Boost After Chain Finish is activated, the attack behavior during weapon actions changes for a certain period of time, and the weapon's attack speed increases according to the number of chains. *For main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 120 seconds Attack speed 100% for 50 chains or less Attack speed 105% for 80 chains or less Attack speed 110% for 81 chains or more Attack speed increase limit 120% *When acquiring "Chain Trigger Increase", attack speed 120% for 101 chains or more Once acquired, a gauge indicating the effect time will be added below the chain number. The gauge will continue to be displayed during the duration of the effect. If a chain finish occurs during the effect time, the effect time will be maximized. Each time a chain finish occurs, an additional speed increase effect is applied depending on the number of chains. 1 to 50 remains unchanged, 51 to 80 increases by +5%, 81 to 100 increases by +10%, and 101 to 150 increases by +20%. Attack speed is added each time the effect occurs. Activate the 81 chain twice to reach the maximum, and so on. During the duration of the effect, the number of shots fired during a stylish roll increases from 4 to 6 shots. Although it is described as an increase in attack speed, it does not only improve attack speed. With the exception of a few, the speed of all movements exclusive to twin machine guns changes. Therefore, it is naturally directly linked to improving the evasion performance of weapon actions, and the tempo of evasion tends to be off when in a no-boost state. For this reason, the twin machine gun has a performance that can only be used at almost maximum speed (120%), and when it comes into contact with an enemy, the battle begins by first reaching the attack speed limit of 120%. In any case, it's better to get to 120% with a finish of 101 or higher for the first time, which will help you progress later. Due to this skill being exclusive to the main class, there is almost no advantage for anyone other than the main gunner to use the twin machine gun. After the adjustment in August 2025, the effect time will now be retained even when riding gimmicks such as Mobile Cannon and using M.A.R.S. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Changed so that if a special weapon is equipped during its effect time, the attack speed increase stage and effect time before equipping will be restored when the special weapon is removed. 2022/12/07 Update The effect time of Gunner's class skill "Chain Boost" has been revised upward to 120 seconds. 2022/02/09 Fixed a bug in Gunner's class skill "Chain Boost" where the effect of increasing attack speed was not being applied to the twin machine gun's step counter. Official website ▲ ▼ Chain Trigger Increase The maximum number of chains for Chain Trigger increases to 150. After 101 chains, the power and down value increase per chain increases. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 Maximum number of chains 150 Power increase per chain 2% Attack speed 120% for 101 chains or more Being able to maximize chain boost with one chain finish is a pretty big advantage. Due to the adjustment in 2025/8, the power increase value no longer decreases after the 101st chain, so at the 150th chain, it will unleash tremendous firepower and down value. The advantage is that you can save up the count when it seems like you won't be able to finish, or when the enemy is about to go down. Also, if you are facing an enemy that only exposes its weak point when downed, or if you don't have time to finish twice when it breaks down, it is better to charge up to around 150 before finishing. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Changed so that the chain finish down value increases according to the number of chains. The amount of increase per chain has been revised upward. ▲ ▼ Chain Boost Advance Extends the invincibility time of weapon actions during chain boost. Also, when you successfully evade with a weapon action, the effect duration of the chain boost will be extended. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 - - The extension of invincibility time (performance improvement) is considerable, and most attacks can be easily completely evaded with a single weapon action. The evasive power of weapon action → weapon action is higher than expected, and even if you stay in the attack range of a long-duration attack, if you can avoid the first hit properly, you can sometimes continue to evade it endlessly with continuous attacks. However, dodging once does not guarantee invincibility against that attack, so for attacks with long attack times such as Fortus-type spinning attacks, if you stay within the attack range without repeatedly hitting the weapon action, you will be hit normally. Don't let your guard down. After the adjustment in August 2025, it will now activate even if you block an attack with Stylish Onslaught's guard point. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/12/07 Update The effect time extended upon successful evasion has been upwardly revised. ▲ ▼ Chain Trigger Count Retain If a chain trigger ends without chain finishing, the number of chains at the start of the next chain trigger used will increase according to the number of chains at that time. *Main class/Twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 - - A skill that allows you to restart the count from the middle when the previous chain trigger count time has expired and you have to accumulate the count again. It has no effect if chain finished. After the adjustment in August 2025, it is now possible to hold up to 135 chains, making it extremely easy to recover even if you are stuck in a situation where the chain trigger is out of count or the chain boost is out of duration. It is very useful in situations where there are many detailed battles with movement between them, and is an important element that supports the gunner's comfort in battle. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Chain number stages when ending the chain trigger without chain finishing, The number of chains at the start of the next chain trigger has been revised upward. 2023/4/05 Update Fixed a bug where the effect may not be applied ▲ ▼ Attack PP Recovery Increases the amount of PP recovered when attacking. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PP recovery amount Main 120% 122% 123% 124% 125% 126% 127% 128% 129% 130% Sub 115% 117% 118% 119% 120% 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% Image Lv. 11 12 13 14 15 PP recovery amount Main 131% 132% 133% 134% 135% - - - - - Sub 126% 127% 128% 129% 130% - - - - - If you get the full amount, the amount of PP recovery will increase visibly. Especially if you have no other skills to acquire, we recommend acquiring the full level. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Increased PP recovery amount when used in subclasses 2022/06/08 Added Lv.11 to 15 ▲ ▼ Overwelm Increases the PP recovery amount when attacking enemies other than bosses. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PP recovery amount Main 120% 122% 123% 124% 125% 126% 127% 128% 129% 130% Sub 115% 117% 118% 119% 120% 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% Demonstrates its power in battles against small fry. It is best to first acquire the essential skills such as Attack PP Recovery and invest the remaining skill points, rather than cutting off other useful skills to get the full set. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Increased PP recovery amount when used in subclasses ▲ ▼ Dodge PP Gain PP is recovered when you successfully evade with a step or twin machine gun weapon action. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 PP recovery amount +10 +13 +16 +18 +20 It's easy to misunderstand from the text, but with TMG it can be activated with both step and weapon attack, but with other weapons it can only be activated with step. PP can be recovered when evading. It's a skill that can't be activated actively, so preferences are divided, but it can become an unsung hero without you even noticing, especially in boss battles. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Changed specifications so that the effect is activated even when used in a subclass ▲ ▼ Slow Landing Attack Gu Falling speed becomes slower during normal attacks. *For gunner weapons only Image Lv. 1 - - Altitude will hardly decrease during normal attacks. Stylish roll attacks have no effect. ▲ ▼ Slow Landing Charge Gu While charging PA, the falling speed becomes slower. *For gunner weapons only Image Lv. 1 - - PA charging is required at the start and end of the chain, making it much easier to stay in the air. Depending on your play style, it may be easier for some opponents who are mainly involved in ground battles to not have it, but it is generally recommended that you learn it. Although the assault rifle PA "Homing Dart" is not a charge PA, it is the target of this skill. ▲ ▼ Long Range Advantage Gu Implemented on October 11, 2023 Increases the damage dealt by PA and techniques to boss enemies that are not targeting you. *Main class/Ranger, Gunner, Force, Tector (Talis), Braver (Bullet Bow) Weapon only Image Lv. 1 Power 115% This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). A skill added to adjust the balance when using long-range weapons in multiplayer. As stated in the description, only PA and techniques are covered, and class skills, normal attacks, counters, etc. are not covered. Compound techniques with the name "technique" are class skills and are therefore not eligible, but Talis' conversion techniques are. You can tell whether an enemy is targeting you by looking at whether or not there is an eye symbol next to the enemy's name. Due to its nature, it goes well with the Ranger's class skill Obscure Form, which makes it difficult to be targeted. Basically, it targets ranged and legal weapons, but Waker and Slayer cannot be learned, and Tector's Wand is excluded, so be careful. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Stylish Roll Arts By pressing the PA button while a weapon action is activated, PP is consumed to perform an attack that is more powerful than normal. *Twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 PP consumption +10 If you input the twin machine gun PA during a stylish roll, it will be activated by consuming 10 PP. It does not recover PP when hit, but the natural recovery of PP is maintained. It will not be activated by PA or techniques of other weapons using multi-weapons. Normally, it fires an enhanced bullet that behaves the same as a normal attack during a stylish roll. When chain boosting, fires a short-range area attack. The firing range is beyond the proper range of TMG. Compared to normal shooting during Stylish Roll, the number of hits for normal shooting changes from 4 to 6 during chain boost, while Stylish Roll Arts remains at 4, so just using it on a single enemy doesn't have much of an advantage in terms of both firepower and chain earnings. After the upward revision on 2024/01/31, the attack range will be significantly expanded. It has a very wide width and a slightly longer range than Infinite Ricochet, making it a useful option as an attack method and chain earning method in anti-group battles. If you can avoid the enemy's attack, you can easily connect it to PA with Stylish Roll Strike Back. On the other hand, the increase in firepower is about the same as normal fire during a roll, which has been enhanced at the same time, and the relationship against a single enemy has not changed much. In terms of simple power, it has been strengthened to the point where it is comparable to each PA without charge. However, it is definitely not as good as each PA equipped with Close Bullet and Strikeback, which specialize in single firepower. Depending on research, roll arts including counter bullets may become an option during chain finishing. As the name ``Arts'' suggests, it is a rare skill that is treated as PA, and PA strengthening buffs and long range advantage are applied. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/01/31 Increased power Increased attack range during chain boost 2021/10/13 Expanded attack range during chain boost. ▲ ▼ Stylish Roll Strike Back After a successful evasion with a weapon action, the PP consumption of the first PA used increases, but the power increases. *For twin machine guns only Image Lv. 1 Power 120% PP consumption 120% The effect is stocked once when you successfully evade with a stylish roll and is permanently retained until the next time you activate PA. The stock limit is only one use. Regardless of the hit, the stock is consumed when PA is activated (when PP decreases). It will be consumed even if the PA fails to fire due to being hit at the same time it is activated or due to step canceling of the charge. After the adjustment in August 2025, it will now activate even if you block an attack with Stylish Onslaught's guard point. When activated, the same sound effects and effects as when the step is successfully evaded will now occur. However, even if you perform a normal attack, it cannot be converted into a step counter. It does not apply to photon arts other than the twin machine gun granted by multi-weapon. ▲ ▼ Strike Back Advance After successfully dodging with a weapon action, the first PA you use will have an invincibility period. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 - - The effect is stocked once when you successfully evade with a stylish roll, and is permanently retained until the next time you activate PA. The stock limit is only one use. Regardless of the hit, the stock is consumed when PP is reduced by starting charging or using it immediately. It is consumed even if the PA fails to fire due to being hit while charging or step canceling. After the adjustment in August 2025, it will now activate even if you block an attack with Stylish Onslaught's guard point. Invincibility time occurs separately in two stages: when charging starts and when PA is activated. After the adjustment in August 2025, the invincibility time has become extremely long, and the invincibility time of all PAs now lasts comfortably from the start of charge to the start of chain finish (first hit). It is also important that PA without SA can be activated to the end without interruption. However, be aware that you are powerless against attacks that cannot be blocked. It is extremely incompatible with the unblockable barrage of the second half of Dark Fals Wael. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Extended the invincibility time when Photon Arts starts charging. 2022/06/08 The specifications have been changed so that an invincibility time will occur when the Photon Arts with the effect starts charging. ▲ ▼ Stylish Roll Counter Bullet A counter will occur at the same time when you successfully evade with a weapon action. *For twin machine guns only Image Lv. 1 - - 8 bullets are automatically fired when you successfully evade with a stylish roll or successfully disable with Stylish Onslaught's guard point. There are no particular character movements. No stiffness. Power is 2.5×8 HIT, PP recovery amount 0 The single shot power is the lowest class as a TMG attack method, but if you consider that the chain count will automatically advance considerably when the roll evasion is successful = you can earn chains even when the enemy is attacking, it is quite excellent. After the adjustment in 2025/8, the number of hits has doubled, so if you can successfully match the enemy's attack judgment continuous attack, you can earn chains at once. It's easy to use because the counter is activated automatically, but it won't occur if the opponent slips past you and goes behind you. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Increased the number of hits and adjusted power distribution. 2022/10/05 Relaxed firing angle Adjusted the attack location to make it easier to hit moving enemies ▲ ▼ Rising Drive After activating a weapon action, press the normal attack button at a specific timing to attack while rising. *Main class/twin machine gun only Image Lv. 1 - - A horizontal light effect will appear after the weapon action is activated. By inputting a normal attack at that timing, it will increase. Can be activated up to 2 times in a row. The amount of increase changes depending on whether you have captured the enemy or not. When captured, it rises by about one jump. If not, the increase will only compensate for the drop caused by weapon actions. An easy-to-understand criterion is when the enemy's name is displayed at the top of the screen. Can also rise during Stylish Onslaught. A useful skill that makes aerial combat smoother. If you can master it, it has such performance that you won't even need twin daggers or wires for altitude adjustment as a multi-weapon. The speed increase due to chain boost also affects the activation of this skill's effect, so there is a difference in the skill activation timing between when there is no chain boost benefit and when the benefit is at its maximum (speed 120%). You need to be careful because it often happens that you try to activate it due to your habit and it doesn't work. See also the video on Rappy.commu. Skill Activation (C)SEGA Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/01/31 Changed the specifications so that it can be activated up to 2 times in a row Changed the specifications so that the amount of elevation gain will be reduced if there are no enemies around 2023/06/07 Upward revised the power 2022/10/05 Added invincibility time ▲ ▼ T Machine Gun Another Arts PP Save Reduces PP consumption when activating different PAs in succession. *For twin machine guns only Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 PP consumption 90% 85% 80% 75% 70% Basically, each twin machine gun's PA has an independent purpose, and there are many situations where it is easy to fire the same PA over and over again, so the benefits are a little weaker than the Another Arts PP save of other weapons. Another drawback is that it is quite easy to recover PP from twin machine guns' normal attacks and stylish roll shooting. It is useful when shooting Ricochet → Rave etc. alternately. These two are naturally more powerful than Stylish Roll Shooting in set plays involving chains, and there is a slight difference in firepower, so in situations where both can be used, this skill will be of great benefit if used alternately. There are many combos that use two PAs that are easy to handle during chain finishes, so there are unexpected opportunities to activate them. ▲ ▼ Hail of Bullets [Active Skill] Consumes the gauge accumulated through attacks to fire continuously at high speed. Chain Finish and Chain Boost effects are not applied to this attack. *For twin machine guns only Image Lv. 1 Power 1088 (Actual power 1305) Recast 15 seconds Number of hits 50, PP recovery total 100, Appropriate distance damage compensation is always applied regardless of distance (power is 1.2 times the stated power), Invincible from start to finish. By filling up the gauge in advance, you can instantly perform attacks with high power and a high number of hits. It has a considerable range and can quickly accumulate 50 hits with almost guaranteed bullet speed, and it also has the effect of attack PP recovery, so the amount recovered is so large that it can recover from a small amount of PP to full at once (even if the maximum PP is around 200, it can easily recover from 0 remaining), and it also has the aspect of being a PP reload skill that essentially recovers all PP. Its power and DPS are high (not only its total power is high, but its DPS alone exceeds 536), and it remains completely invincible for a very long time while in operation, making it highly safe.What's more, if handled well, it can be activated at a high rate of rotation, making it an extremely powerful attack skill overall. It has high DPS even when shot alone, but since it has a powerful chain storage effect, I want to hit it during the chain trigger as much as possible to increase the count. While consulting with PP, you should immediately shoot as soon as you have accumulated 150 chains. It doesn't have any drawbacks, but since it's an attack that can only hit a single target, its annihilation power and chain storage speed in group battles may be inferior to PA in some areas. In a motion similar to bullet rave, it fires two sets of rapid-fire shots before releasing a finishing shot that resembles a thunderbolt. Some movement is possible in between. This is extremely rare for a twin machine gun attack method, as it has no distance attenuation. Therefore, it is also possible to use it from medium range and use the invincibility time to finish at close range. The rate at which the gauge fills and the recast condition are based on Hail of Bullets Amplify's full swing, and can be recast when all 100 chain finish combos hit against a single boss and 50 chains have been accumulated for the next turn. In other words, if you can hit the finishing combo properly, you will be able to activate it once every 100 chains. Although the accuracy of chain finishing is required more than ever, if you adjust and use it properly, you will be able to use it comfortably and demonstrate firepower. However, the 150 chain finish is currently extremely powerful, so it should be considered depending on the situation. Each attack has its own gauge accumulation amount, regardless of the number of HITs of attacks or differences in power due to equipment. Overall, the higher the attack power multiplier, the higher the amount of gauge accumulation. In PA, the finishing part of Bullet Rave, Close Bullet, and other attack methods have a noticeably high gauge recovery amount for Step Counter. Gauge cannot be accumulated for photon blast, dash attack, and dive attack. It was originally a powerful skill, but after being strengthened, it became an even more powerful skill that could be called "extremely powerful." For Gu, it boasts a performance that can be said to be an even more important trump card than Photon Blast. It is a reliable item that will greatly improve your firepower and PP management ability by continuing to activate it in appropriate situations and situations without being abused or spoiled. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/08/02 Increased power (850 → 1088) Reduced recast time (20 → 15 seconds) ▲ ▼ Stylish Onslaught If you activate a weapon action without directional input, the behavior changes to charging forward. *For twin machine guns only Image Lv. 1 - - Power 140, PP recovery amount 5 Move forward about 1 step in the lock-on direction or in front and fire at a close distance. Only while locked on, it moves straight without being obstructed by other enemies or parts other than the locked-on target. At the beginning of the attack, there is a guard point (all around you), and during attacks, knockback and blowback are disabled. It looks like an elbow strike, but since the muzzle is pointing forward, it is technically different from an elbow strike. Like S roll, PP will recover naturally during the action. Although the guard point judgment time is short, there are fewer gaps compared to S-roll, and it is easier to maneuver. The firepower is also quite high, and it can be used as a strengthening attack while collecting PP with successive attacks. The knockback/blow-off nullification effects were sometimes used to push the opponent in Chain Finish, but now with the addition of "Chain Finish Advance", the benefits have diminished. With the adjustment in 2024/1, it now consumes 0 PP and recovers PP on hit, making it possible to hit repeatedly like a normal attack. After the adjustment in August 2025, it is now possible to stock Strike Back and fire Counter Bullet upon successful evasion, and the power itself has also increased. When incorporated into a chain finish, it is often included in a combo when detonated by a short-action PA such as a close bullet. Although it's a no-cost combo that emphasizes power, it's also a candidate, but the drawback is that Hail of Bullets' gauge collection is a little low. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/08/06 Power has been revised upward. The accumulation amount of the Hail of Bullets gauge has been revised upward. Expand attack range. The movement distance when the enemy is within a certain distance has been upwardly revised. The specifications have been changed so that an invincibility period occurs when an attack is successfully nullified. The specifications have been changed so that the effects of the following class skills will be activated when the attack is successfully nullified. Chain Boost Advance Stylish Roll Counter Bullet Stylish Roll Strike Back Strike Back Advance 2024/01/31 Changed the specifications so that PP is not consumed when activated Changed the specifications so that PP is recovered when an attack hits 2023/06/07 Changed the forward guard point when activated to an omnidirectional guard point Extended the guard point 2022/04/06 Upwardly revised the power The attack motion of the old PSO2's twin machine gun PA "Dead Approach" is used. ▲ ▼ Spread Shot [Active Skill] Fires a special short-range shot by consuming the accumulated gauge through attacks. Assault rifle only Image Lv. 1 Power 840 Common skill for Ranger and Gunner. A short-range shot shot that consumes a dedicated gauge. Fires 2 shots in one use. Can be set not only for subpalettes but also for weapon palettes. Acquiring the skill ``Spread Shot Quick Escape'' increases invincibility time and increases evacuation distance. By attacking enemies with an assault rifle, the gauge above the skill icon will fill up, and when it reaches the maximum, it will become usable. The amount of gauge accumulated varies depending on the type of attack. In addition to enemies, you can also fill up the gauge by shooting Tames, ores, and containers. Each time the gauge is filled, it can be used up once, and it is not possible to stock it multiple times. In battles with small fish, you can often accumulate homing darts, so it's a good idea to use them up as soon as you have them. Except for PB, it has the greatest instantaneous firepower among rifle attacks. However, in order to hit Matomo, it is necessary to shoot far inside (nearly close contact) than the appropriate distance. It goes well with Rifle Grenade (Trap), which is also a high-firepower technique, and by using this skill after getting close to it, you can return to the appropriate distance without wasting anything. If you use movement input, after the first shot, it moves quickly and then fires the second shot. The power is 70 x 6 shots x 2 shots, total 840 (12 HIT). PP natural recovery stops during operation. The amount of PP recovered when an attack hits is 5 per shot (60 when all shots hit) ▼ Adjustment history 2021/10/13 Upward adjustment of power (from 60 to 70) Changed specifications so that PP is recovered when an attack hits (from 0 to 5) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Spread Shot Quick Escape When activating Spread Shot, invincibility time occurs. Also, the retraction distance when inputting a direction is extended. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill for Ranger and Gunner. ▼ Adjustment history 2021/10/13 Extended invincibility time. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Class skills scheduled to be implemented in the future *Currently, there are no class skills scheduled to be added. ▲ ▼ Gunner subclasses ▼ GuHu GuHu Specialized durability configuration. The main skills are Flash Guard and Massive Hunter (Short Cycle + Extra Shield) Flash Guard simply improves defense and is more effective against strong enemies. Massive Hunter can prevent being blown away. Previously, Massive Hunter was useful for protection while Chain Finish was activated, but now that Chain Finish Advance and Strike Back Advance have extremely powerful invincibility times, it has become much less meaningful to use it for purposes other than pure durability. However, those who actually use Gu will understand that while the twin machine gun itself is a weapon with extremely high evasion performance, it is also a weapon that is surprisingly prone to getting hit while starting to charge the PA or while chaining up with Aimless Rain in a melee, so it is still a recommended combination for those who want to cover those areas. In the situation after the EX special ability is implemented, there is a very powerful special ability called EX Try Shield as a countermeasure against accidental bullet damage, so if you use this, its usefulness will be considerably reduced. Since Gu has a high evasion ability that makes it difficult to get hit, it can be said that it is being positioned as a subclass for beginners who are not accustomed to Gu's unique operation of close combat with twin machine guns. Furthermore, the Twin Machine Gun can perform both single-target attacks and area-of-area attacks, so there is not much benefit to using Hunter weapons even if you throw away the main correction. ▼ GuFi GuFi Firepower specialized configuration. A composition that increases the firepower for downed states using defeat-type skills. It is one of the few subclasses that can directly increase firepower. It can be said that the opportunities for success are increasing because the scope of Defeat-type skills can be applied to all kinds of knockdowns. If it's limited to when it's down, it will be more comfortable around PP, but since Gu is a class that doesn't have trouble with PP, the benefit is small. Since the distance is close, it is not impossible to use Fi weapons, but the basics are to keep holding the TMG, and basically there is no change from the fighting style of Gu alone. If you dare to use Fi weapons, it is a big advantage to be able to incorporate the mobility of the Twin Dagger into the TMG with a multi-weapon. Twin dagger PA and accelerator drive provide a "means to engage the enemy in the air" which is rare in TMG. However, compared to the wired lance multi-weapon, it is difficult and busy to operate, the twin dagger's normal attack is required (as it is a condition for accelerator drive activation), and the weapon palette has been drastically changed, making it highly picky. If you want to try it, it's best to test drive it with a low-rare weapon first and see if it suits you. However, compared to Ra, who is also the first choice for firepower, オブスキュアフォームが存在しない点が致命的。 サブクラスにファイターを選ぶ場合EXスキルでこの点を補う事が必須となる為、無駄が多すぎる。 ▼ GuRa GuRa オブスキュアフォームによりヘイトを大幅に削減可能で、マルチプレイでのロングレンジアドバンテージの発動が安定し、結果として火力の大幅な向上に繋がる。 Guはチェインフィニッシュの性質上ヘイトを取ったり取らなかったりすることがしばしばあり、かつ機動力の高さや近接クラスとのレンジ差から敵をあちこちに振り回してしまう場合も多いため、近接クラスと組む時はお互いにwin-winであり、非常に有用。 加えてアサルトライフルの武器アクションやスプレッドショットを拡張することが可能。要所要所で強力な選択肢が増えるため、ツインマシンガンとアサルトライフルをマルチウェポン化するのがお勧め。 ライフルグレネーダーとスプレッドショットオートチャージは、チェインに縛られない定期的な高火力攻撃とPP回収が利点。ライフルグレネーダーはGuスキルには無いが、アサルトライフルであるためメインクラス補正が乗る。 主にチェインフィニッシュ後のリキャスト時間や、PPが尽きそうな時、敵の一時的な弱点露出やブレイクダウンの際のダメ押し、などに使うと効率良く瞬間火力を高められる。グレネード設置による出待ちも可。 カウンター手段としては、カウンターバレットが有力な選択肢になったためグレネードカウンターの有用性は若干低下したが、ガンナーの弱点であるダウン値の低さを少しでも補いたい場合の選択肢にもなる。 主にボス討伐がメインのクエストで特に役に立つ構成。 ウィークバレットセルフベネディットも、特定のボスに対して非常に有用なスキル。 なお、状態異常耐性に関しては一部のリージョンやクエストの際にあって損はない程度。パニックやフリーズなど1回でもかかりたくない状態異常は割と多いので、それらの使い手が相手になる場合は地味ながら貢献する。 ちなみにハイランクのPSEバースト時については、ヘイルを適当に回せば元々PPが尽きることはない…が、ヘイル自体はあくまで単体攻撃でそこそこモーションも長いため殲滅速度に支障が出る。 一応ライフルグレネーダーやダッシュアタックで範囲巻き込みしながら回収する手もあるが、基本的には素直にサブFoにするか EX特殊能力 のエネミーフェルドPPゲイン入り武器を用意したいところ。 エルノザ・デクストといった金策マップ（1ヒットの火力が重要な場所）に行く場合は、エネミーフェルドPPゲインをつけたライフルのカスタム2ホーミングダートやカスタム1フィアーイレイザーを使えばなんとかなる。 総じて、現在でもGuのサブクラスとしては真っ先に候補に挙がる存在である。 ▼ GuFo GuFo PP回復力特化構成。 基本的には、アサルトライフルとツインマシンガンのみを用いて戦い、PAを存分に使用したいという方にお勧め。 ツインマシンガンの場合、対雑魚戦では密集した敵集団に対してエイムレスレイン＋チェイントリガーを殲滅の主力に選んだ場合のキリングPPゲインとの相性が抜群。 チェインフィニッシュを撃ち込んだあと、即座に次のチェイントリガーを始動する流れが快適になる。 PP回収に便利なヘイルオブバレッツが単体攻撃であるため、PSEバーストなどを見越す場合は EX特殊能力 のエネミーフェルドPPゲインがなければ安定の選択肢となる。 対ボス戦においては自前のスキルだけでも充分なPP回収が見込めるので、それほど大きな利点はない。 アサルトライフルに関してはRaFoの下位互換に近いものの、やはりホーミングダートとキリングPPゲインの相性が抜群であり、低耐久の雑魚を一掃する場面や道すがらのテイムズ狩りなどでは非常に扱いやすい。 ガンナーに限った事ではないが、汎用性を第一に見るならこれ。 ▼ GuTe GuTe ボス戦時にフォトンブラストゲージが蓄積しやすくなる組み合わせ。 それ以外に目立った利点も少なく、現状は有用とは言い難い。 ▼ GuBr GuBr レスタサイン回復量微増と受け身成功時HP回復という特徴を持つ。 マルチウェポンを駆使すれば円滑にブレイブコンバットを活用することもできるが、基本はツインマシンガンでチェインをきめていきたい性質とややかみ合わせが悪い。 バレットボウ、カタナともどちらかと言えば対単体向けなため、その点でもツインマシンガンとの相性は少々微妙。 それぞれの専用武器で戦っている時間が長いほどチェインもブレイブコンバットも利点を発揮することから、両方をフル活用するのは困難と言える。 ブレイブコンバットのリキャストを短縮してさっさとフィニッシュしてしまい瞬間ダメージを盛るような使い方はできるだろう。 Stylish rolls do not have invincibility time extensions, and there is a high risk of being hit, so it is convenient to recover HP when the passive is successful. ▼ GuBo GuBo A configuration for bosses. Skill side: Defeat Amplify can slightly compensate for TMG's weak point, which has a low down value. Also, although the effective enemies are limited, the Partial Destroy Advantage also gives you a small benefit of increasing firepower and reducing damage. In addition to limited activation conditions, it is inferior to sub-Hu in terms of pure durability, and inferior to sub-Fi in terms of firepower, so it has poor dexterity. I don't see any noticeable improvement in the down value, so it's probably just a bonus. Armament/PA side Boots are as good as wires and daggers in that they can instantly gain altitude without surging impulse derivatives. However, in the case of wire, it can be raised without subclass restrictions and without PP consumption, so there is little merit in subclass setting and multi-weapon just as a part for gaining altitude. Although it is assumed that a combination of weapon and unit shooting methods will be used, you can avoid the low DPS during TMG's chain count by quickly chain finishing and switching to jet intensity when down. In addition, the weapon action continuous hit counter allows you to take continuous counters against some sustained attacks such as beam type, so it is possible to compensate for the power of TMG's low step counter. It can stay in the air, has a movement speed approaching that of Photon Dash, and although there is no guidance, it is a shock wave with a counter flying, so it can be used while adjusting the position. In the case of dual blades, a composite shot is also required. Fanatic Blade has the best performance among all subclasses in terms of attack and PP recovery. Since it is possible to recover PP while producing high DPS, it is possible to recover the PP discharged by Chain Finish while maintaining firepower. Similar to the boots mentioned above, when downed, you can quickly cut the chain and use the Fanatic Blade to generate firepower. Even when you are not down, you can easily round up with a low chain when you want to increase your firepower, such as when exposing a slight weak point, which improves the play feel to some extent. However, be careful as the power of the Photon Blade will be significantly reduced if you accidentally perform an action on the TMG side while the skill is activated. DB's step counter is relatively powerful. Furthermore, by using Photon Blade during the evasion step, it is possible to counter DPS around 700 even without main correction. Unlike rifle weapon actions, it is possible to counter from step cancel almost anytime during PA, and the fact that the Gu skill's dodge PP gain is applied is also good. You can also accumulate pinion blades along with fanatic blades. If you have already learned Blade Counter Alternation, you will be able to engage enemies with a counter, and the counter power will also increase slightly. In terms of PA, Stoke Destruction derivatives and Raving Falcon derivatives can be used to gain altitude. In general, skills other than those tied to weapons tend to deteriorate when selecting other subclasses. The combat style incorporates the Bouncer's weapons and skills, so the feel of the controls will change dramatically. Although it takes some getting used to, it can be said that it is a subclass that can be used to hit the nail on the head, especially when fighting against bosses. ▼ GuSl GuSl A configuration for bosses. A subclass that emphasizes firepower, with skills that raise the critical rate linked to simple firepower. Depending on the equipment configuration, it is possible to slightly strengthen the PP aspect due to critical hit PP gain. Originally, Gunner is not a class that has trouble with PP when using Hail of Bullets properly, so the fact that this level of PP reinforcement is sufficient also supports the good compatibility. On the gunner side, if you mainly use twin machine guns, there isn't much room to use Gun Slash, so you can spend as many skill points as you like on critical skills. However, it is also very effective to use the counter on the Gunslash side to raise the counter firepower, or to raise the standby firepower with a 2-stage charge weapon action, so it is also a great idea to prepare Gunslash with Marupon. Since they have the same shooting attributes, it is also nice that you can use the shooting capsule as is. However, compared to Ra, which is also the first choice for firepower, the lack of Obscure Form is fatal. If you choose Slayer as your subclass, you will need to supplement this point with EX skills, so there is a lot of waste. ▲ ▼ Gunner's EX Style ▼ Adrus Adrus A combination that has one purpose: ``You can stock up on Strike Back without waiting for the opponent to attack.'' ブラストエコーやトリガーアタックの「攻撃無効化」条件を満たすには普段からスタイリッシュロールではなくスタイリッシュオンスロートで攻撃を防ぐよう心がける必要があるので、どうしてもチェイン稼ぎの速度とトレードオフとなり全体的な火力が少し抑えられる事になる。 一部クエストの「攻撃無効化時に発動する」強化効果を能動的に発動するには必要なほか、一方的な殲滅戦になりがちな対雑魚で能動的にストライクバックを乗せられる。 このためオルタレルム探索の戦闘セクションなど上記の強化効果や雑魚の群れとの戦闘機会があるクエスト向けと言える。 ▼ ブリッツ ブリッツ ヒット数稼ぎとPA連打頻度共に相性は最高峰。 しかもEXスタイルのスキルによる追撃効果はチェイン数に加算されるのだが、ブリッツのみ追撃のヒット数が多いというおまけ付き。 明らかにガンナーを意識したEXスタイルで、これを選んでおけばまず間違いない。 チェイン稼ぎにバレットレイヴかインフィニットリコシェを連打することが多く、チェインフィニッシュ時でもクロースバレット3回がかなり強力な選択肢なので、自然とブリッツカスケードの条件を満たしやすい。 ヒット数の多さについては言わずもがな。ブリッツのブラストエコーとトリガーアタックの条件を最速で満たせるクラスだろう。 ▼ セレスト セレスト セレストリエイテレーション対応スキルはヘイルオブバレッツ、それと一応スプレッドショット。 1チェイン中のヘイルオブバレッツ2連発も狙える…かと思いきや、1発目をチェイン開始即入れても結局2発目で150チェインをそれなりにオーバーしてしまう。 単純に高火力スキルを連発できると考えればそう悪くはないが、ロスを抑えるにはインフィニットリコシェをタイプ3にして使うのがほぼ必須。 ツインマシンガン関連でセレストフローレスに対応した攻撃は、PA全種とヘイルオブバレッツ。 つまり通常攻撃やSロール以外の主力攻撃ほぼ全てと言っていい。 チャージPA（特にチェイン始動時）の保険になるほか、ノンチャージPAでも出始めにしっかり攻撃無効化判定が付与される。 猶予はかなり短いものの、インフィニットリコシェ出始めの回避無敵に敵の攻撃が引っかかるとフローレスが不発する場合がある。 チェインフィニッシュやヘイルオブバレッツのタイミングに偏るとはいえダウン値稼ぎも中の上程度はあるので、ブラストエコーとトリガーアタックも一応そつなく扱える。 ブリッツほどの好相性ではないが、こちらも扱いやすい方。 ▲ ▼ サブクラスとしてのガンナー まず、ツインマシンガンはメインクラス・ガンナー時でなければ殆どの機能が使用不能になる為、ダッシュアタックで遠距離からPPを回復する道具程度にしかならない。 強力な範囲火力を持つPA・ホーミングダートを使用可能になるアサルトライフルが装備可能になる点は魅力。しかし、ガンナーはPP回収を担うライフルグレネーダーもスプレッドショットオートチャージも所持していないので、アサルトライフルを扱う能力でもサブクラス・レンジャーには遠く及ばない。 クラススキル面では、サブクラスでGu武器を使わずに使用できるスキルは無条件で攻撃時のPP回復量を増加させるアタックPPリカバリーとオーバーウェルム、更にステップ成功時にPP回復が出来るドッジPPゲインが存在する。 同じPPサポート系のサブクラスであるサブFoは格下の雑魚散らし性能が圧倒的に高いが、対ボスには腐りやすい。 明確にボス・堅い雑魚しか出てこないミッションにおいて、ステップでのカウンターを狙いやすい・かつ主軸とするクラスではサブGuの方が有利に働くシーンが多いと思われる。 しかし、そもそも現状ではステップアタックを多用するクラス自体が非常に限られる事、そもそもボス戦でPPに困る武器種自体がかなり少ない事などから、ドッジPPゲインはガンナーからしても他クラスからしても無用の長物に近く、サブクラスとしての性能は残念ながら非常に低い部類に位置している。 ▲ ▼ コメント 【過去ログ】 Vol1 最新の20件を表示しています。 コメントページを参照 画像を非表示 ヴァエルのイカ君ちょこまか動いてすぐ逃げるから、チェインが貯まる前に腐っちゃって辛いんよ特に初動 -- 2025-02-10 (月) 10:31:58 エイジスと同様の感じ、ヴァエルは相性悪いわ -- 2025-02-10 (月) 21:47:09 1回やって不快度高かったからヴァエルにGu出すのすぐやめたわ。フィニッシュと壁生成のタイミング被るとめんどいのもあるし -- 2025-02-11 (火) 00:56:01 マルスパートあるから結局リテインとヘイル貯めとかないと後半死ぬしもうやだ。 There's no point unless you give us the Hail Gauge automatic storage function and the ability to use Hail 10 seconds after the start of the quest -- 2025-02-11 (Tue) 02:36:35 The behavior itself is suitable for Gu, but... You can take as many SBs as you like and attack us, so... Chain management is really the bottleneck... -- 2025-02-11 (Tue) 11:44:40 It doesn't feel that hard because it accumulates before it flashes except for the first time. It's frustrating that the count doesn't increase even if you combine high-speed charge with counter bullet + normal, even though it's by design -- 2025-02-11 (Tue) 14:41:37 Has anyone finally defeated Masquerade as a gunner? I feel like my heart will break due to the lack of firepower -- 2025-03-03 (Mon) 18:39:27 I looked it up on X and it seems that there are people who have cut it down to 8 minutes -- 2025-03-03 (Mon) 18:46:47 Amazing! ! -- 2025-03-03 (Mon) 22:05:04 Cleared in 9 minutes and 19 seconds with weapon acro magnification of 291%. I feel like I haven't used the diving and barrier for a while after using them, so I unlocked Hail several times after using them. If you don't close the distance immediately after blocking the beam, it will continue to beam at you, so don't start shooting PA on the spot, dash and close the distance. If you finish during Mascare's attack, it's easy to hit areas other than its weak points, and you'll have a lot of resistance, so aim to finish at the end of the attack as much as possible. -- 2025-03-03 (Mon) 19:01:38 Does it feel like Larze is not included when the magnification is 291%? He has a world record... his analysis is accurate, and he's probably the strongest gunner in Arks? -- 2025-03-03 (Mon) 22:06:46 I was disappointed at first, but I gradually got used to it, and once I understood Hale's weaknesses, I was able to complete it in just over 9 minutes. I don't want to do it again though. -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 00:03:38 This can be said about any job, but Jelun is painful, so I think it would be fine if you lowered the damage. It seems impossible if you don't concentrate -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 22:17:36 I was able to clear it easily with 314.5%. Burn Hysterica was holding us back in the second half, and when we kept short, we only got one shot. -- 2025-03-04 (Tue) 23:54:53 [Urgent Recruitment] I found out that SRA is being treated as PA, so I would like to ask someone who can verify it to investigate. -- 2025-03-12 (Wed) 19:29:24 Although it is not stated here, it seems that Strike Back Advance will probably be stocked with rifle weapon Aku as well -- 2025-04-28 (Mon) 07:31:46 Verified at Farshmel and the training center, rifle weapon Aku was not stocked -- 2025-04-29 (Tue) 15:17:57 There may be some specific conditions for this to occur. When I checked this, I was trying it with a non-charged Bullet Rave Type 3 on Pedas at the training center at Epis -- 2025-04-29 (Tue) 16:19:01 I also tried it on Farsumer, but even if I evaded the rifle weapon Aku, I couldn't get on the SB. Epis is incomplete because I haven't used Marupon, but even if I avoided the rifle weapon Aku with another palette's Epis rifle and returned to Epis machine gun, I couldn't use SB. I've also confirmed that you can ride the SB after avoiding it with another TMG. I wonder what the owner of the tree thought was going to be stocked as SB. -- 2025-04-29 (Tue) 19:35:48 Probably has nothing to do with skills. If you use JG, there is a behavior where you won't be able to accept attacks for a certain period of time (even red attacks), so I guess that's related. There may also be lag behavior of all ships -- 2025-04-29 (Tue) 20:36:30 After all, it's the weakest class, but seriously, there's nothing we can do about it... -- 2025-04-30 (Wed) 02:29:35 Wouldn't it be a little easier to handle if Strikeback only rides during chain finish? Even if I get a score of around 70, I feel like I have to accumulate every little bit from there, which limits my movement. ...I thought, but I guess it's no good because I won't have the invincibility of Advance...Also, I want invincibility while charging...Don't you want it? I wouldn't say it's invincible, but it's like super armor -- 2025-05-11 (Sun) 23:21:19 If you use PA in between successive evasions, the effect will be lower, so the only downside is the finish. I understand the charge, but I would like it to have more firepower than to give it such a powerful performance. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 02:20:30 The firepower is the same, but so is the down value. It would be fine just to multiply the SB and finish. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 06:38:49 With the current raid emergency multiplayer with decent firepower, if you have Gu, the break will disappear unless you counterbalance it with Bo, so you really have to do something about the down value. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 07:05:09 If it had been adjusted after Hu, it would definitely have been chained to the down value -- 2025-05-12 (Monday) 17:57:00 It's too bad that the response was completed with something that can't be called an adjustment in the first place. If the future customization of Claus is also crap, then I don't think I can go ahead with it -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 19:08:49 Since it involves a rifle, it was just added as an afterthought to Ra. I think it's bad enough at this point. -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 19:13:07 When I looked at the adjustment details again, it was so realistic that I laughed out loud. It's true that it's a job that relies on high multiplier skills, so I understand that if you mess around with it badly, it will break down, but please strengthen it a little more properly -- 2025-05-12 (Mon) 22:33:16 The T3 Rave implementation had a stronger impact than that Ra adjustment incident. -- 2025-05-13 (Tue) 19:32:52 It looks like the chain boost won't run out even if you ride Marth in August -- 2025-05-27 (Tue) 21:44:19 Will we be able to see Gu conserving the chain boost in Fenrir Taxi lol -- 2025-05-27 (Tue) 22:50:04 When I got out of the taxi, the usual Gu bug occurred. What if you switch weapons while riding? -- 2025-05-27 (Tue) 22:59:31 Hmm, I don't think you understand the essence of this problem. Don't you understand that it's better to always be in a boost state instead of using strange exception handling? -- 2025-05-29 (Thu) 21:36:07 Indeed. Although it touched Gu's chain boost, it seemed like Fi's attack was completely ignored. I don't know what this is all about since I think it would just be a complicated implementation. -- 2025-05-29 (Thursday) 23:51:56 Mars is becoming more and more airy due to equipment inflation, so it's probably a makeshift solution. -- 2025-05-29 (Thursday) 23:54:04 Reading the explanation again, it seems that when you have a board, Mobakya, or special weapon, the chain boost is maintained in all cases, so it's quite helpful -- 2025-05-30 (Friday) 02:40:22 If you were to receive additional adjustments with Gu, what would you realistically want? Quest opening Hail Gauge MAX start ・Hail Gauge automatically fills up skill (Spread Shot thing) ・Chain count duration increased (because there are quite a few times when you want to hold it delicately and wait) ・Count retain carries over the stored chain as it is ・Changed chain finish so that it also takes on the down value ・Visualizes while holding Strikeback & increases maximum stock number to 3rd place I think this is about it. If I get all of these, I think I'll be able to reach the semi-1st class -- 2025-06-06 (Fri) 12:53:13 It's essential to reflect the down value of chain and SB. In addition to visualizing the SB, I would also like to see the chain count fixedly displayed on the weapon palette. Sometimes it's hidden behind something else and I can't see it. Also, the long range was abolished, various gimmicks were corrected so that they would not be reflected in the chain finish, and the PA power was adjusted and reflected. -- 2025-06-06 (Friday) 13:11:13 Increases the power speed of all PAs Gives PP recovery to yourself Increases the range reduction power of Photon Blast, applies chain finish Chain activation +50 start at the start of T -- 2025-06-14 (Sat) 18:08:32 It was mentioned a little above, but personally I would like to have countermeasures against interference while charging -- 2025-06-14 (Sat) 18:55:14 Is it possible to use Onslaught like Wilds Greatsword's Tackle? -- 2025-06-25 (Wed) 21:59:28 I thought it would be done after Waker Slayer was adjusted, but now Gu August has been adjusted as a set with Fi. Moreover, there is a clear statement that this will be done separately from the chain improvement. As expected, it is a must to have a down value on the finish...? -- 2025-06-25 (Wed) 10:05:08 Last time we ended up making minor adjustments with little effect, so I can't be too optimistic until I see the reality (this is a self-protective reaction). -- 2025-06-25 (Wednesday) 11:03:42 His criminal record is too big, so the next adjustment will probably be off anyway -- 2025-06-25 (Wednesday) 13:08:45 But when I started doing rework, his behavior and firepower were among the strongest, Considering that it was after HuBr and before WaSl, it can be said that the order has come in order -- 2025-06-26 (Thu) 00:42:50 Even if it was strong at that time, it had a long range, and the low down value was a problem even back then, so it was stable in multiplayer. In the end, it wouldn't have shined without the gimmick. Ah, I wonder if they will abolish long range next time... -- 2025-06-26 (Thursday) 02:04:48 From what I've seen so far, my disappointment comes before my expectations. They probably don't understand the fundamental problem with boosts anyway, so it's better for their mental health not to have high expectations. After changing the boost state to default speed, adjusting the down value to finish/SB, deleting LR and adjusting the overall firepower, and making the finish non-adaptive to the gimmick system, I'm finally at the starting line. As usual, I'm just making adjustments on top of everything else. -- 2025-06-26 (Thursday) 04:50:02 If I were to list all the adjustments I'd like to make, it would be like that. Well, the management around the chain is like, ``I really want to go with this spec! It's a slow starter!'', so I've given up halfway.I think they'll do it because I did the last Hu adjustment to add a down value to the finish and strikeback... After that, there is fundamentally no value in Gu's existence, because even though it is a class specializing in firepower, it has only average firepower, so that's right... If the constant firepower average value becomes about 1.1 times the current value, I wonder if people will see it as a reassuring firepower class if it exists... -- 2025-06-26 (Thursday) 09:55:44 I have a high magnification skill, so I understand that it will break if I mess around with it, but isn't it too much of a passive adjustment? Are there any development members who can handle gunners? That level -- 2025-06-28 (Sat) 21:00:29 I think it's true that there are few development members who can handle gunners well. From my perspective, having just watched the adjustments, I get the impression that there is a lack of deep understanding around the chain, and that they are being too lenient with their assumptions about player behavior, resulting in unexpected damage and being cautious about adjustments. Even in the current NGS environment where performance is modest, things can still get dangerous due to the influence of chain riding on the dive attack gimmick... Even in the old PSO2, there was a history of broken parts many times around the chain... It is inevitable to be overly cautious. (I'm digressing from the story, but the chain is really bad...it's an interesting element, but it's too violent) -- 2025-06-28 (Sat) 21:19:17 Seriously, it would be fine if they made everything other than TMG's attacks ineligible for finishing. -- 2025-06-28 (Sat) 21:47:05 That's right. It's already been applied to other weapon types, so it's just a matter of doing the same for gimmicks. There's no element that can be broken now if it's just an attack by TMG. It's not that expandable -- 2025-06-29 (Sun) 10:21:01 Please break it even more. For four years after starting NGS, I was always the weakest. Gu can forgive him even if he breaks down for about a year. -- 2025-06-29 (Sun) 23:44:13 Not always. Immediately after long range was implemented -- 2025-06-30 (Mon) 01:41:22 Even before Talis was strengthened (before Ritem), it was the strongest job that could provide both anti-despair firepower and rifle homing dart -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 13:37:40 It would be good if it was on the same level as the others. There's no need to break. -- 2025-06-30 (Monday) 10:21:52 When Ritem was implemented, Gu took a lot of targets and made the enemies go wild. At that time, veteran hunting and despair hunting were the mainstream, so it was really troublesome when Gu took the target. If you are going to adjust Gu, I would like it to be able to obtain Opscure by default. The firepower should be on par with other classes... It's not fun if it's too strong -- 2025-07-03 (Thu) 03:51:29 I agree about Obscure. Although it is a class that can't do anything other than attack, it is complained about because its firepower is not far compared to firepower classes, so it is desirable that it be at the same level as other firepower classes (BoBrSl) -- 2025-07-03 (Thu) 17:13:16 Firepower is based on long range, and if the main and sub compositions all have Obscure, there will be no solution, so the long range condition should be changed to an unconditional increase in power against boss enemies. If you delete it and add that amount to it, it will affect the small fry, so it is better to change it. -- 2025-07-03 (Thursday) 18:06:55 I've never seen Gu take the target and cause it to go wild, but there were people who said it on the complaint board, but they also denied it every time. Gu, who had decent firepower, was back and forth in front of the enemy from that time, so there was no element that would make him go wild compared to other jobs. There was no need for aerials, so there was no need to float in the air. -- 2025-07-03 (Thu) 18:34:18 From a user's perspective, I agree that the only option is to attack, but it seems like the management misunderstands PP gain as a strong skill. I seriously think that I can provide support. -- 2025-07-03 (Thursday) 19:19:11 In the current environment, just distributing a little PP won't provide any support. I don't need support ability in the first place, so please give me firepower, but I wonder if it's received... -- 2025-07-03 (Thursday) 20:03:49 You don't want to listen to requests. It's an operation that says that it will be implemented more than a month after the boost is leveraged while Wael has an advantageous phase for Marth → Otherworld investigation using enhanced Mobakya. You don't understand the user's feelings in the slightest -- 2025-07-06 (Sun) 15:07:07 Well, if there was nothing at all, there wouldn't be any changes to the chain specifications... However, it's a good idea to postpone the adjustment until August when there is a Wael with Marth and an Alter with a strengthened Mobakya... I can imagine that Gu is hated by the management after all. I wonder if he still has traces of how many times he became a balance breaker and how he smeared mud on Sakai's face -- 2025-07-06 (Sun) 18:14:08 The old Gu was a knuckle-type close-range class that boasted explosive power, but the NGS Gu has medium-range continuous stable firepower like semi-Talis, so it's a different class just with the same weapon. I think the people who are complaining don't understand that and mostly want the firepower of the old type, so I don't think the complaints will decrease unless an update like a style change comes out -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 13:49:50 If the firepower increases, there's no need to change the style -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 14:16:33 At the current range, the firepower is limited to Fo, but if you're satisfied with that... -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 14:20:39? ? ? Someone please decipher it -- 2025-07-30 (Wednesday) 14:24:58 You can adjust it by changing the magnification of the appropriate distance only for TMG and strengthening only short range (or adding a skill with such an effect). -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 14:24:59 Still good. If you just bullet rave and get the same firepower as Sl, all melee attacks will die. -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 14:28:46 Even though there is Strike Back, please don't go so far as to make adjustments so that you can win the damage race just by shooting rave from a distance... -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 14:33:46 It's so meaningless that I don't know what's going on... Even now, T-Mashi doesn't have maximum firepower unless it's close range, so it's still close range... It's just that even at medium range, it's much more effective than before -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 23:22:51 I still see people doing bullets from long distance -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 17:26:44 That's a different kind of slug, so if you do it with the people around here, it's a no-no. -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 17:31:27 The increase adjustment is probably an adjustment to increase the power after 101 chain. It takes time to accumulate up to 150 chains, so I can see a future where it won't change much in the end -- 2025-07-29 (Tue) 21:34:45 I think it was written that skills will be adjusted, but there may be little hope that the down value will be added to the finish... -- 2025-07-29 (Tue) 21:44:52 I guess it's fine even if the funeral starts a week later, since it said increase ``etc.'' and Chain Boost even went out of its way to mention his name and adjust his behavior. If this doesn't work, I'll just run away from Gu -- 2025-07-29 (Tue) 22:39:45 Increment up to 350%, quick reload up to 150 chains compatible (actually 0 chain recasts), upward adjustment of count retain (100% carried over), PTPP gain adjustment (return to yourself etc.), down value added to chain, you might want to do this -- 2025-07-30 (Wednesday) 11:40:30 To be honest, PP gain doesn't matter, so it doesn't matter, but I agree with everything else. I feel like I've finally reached the starting line when I've reached all of the things I've listed. Simultaneously adjusted Fi's Dubseka Maitachi has a very similar problem to the chain boost, so I hope they include that too. -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 20:08:08 If the chain exceeds 100, the PA power will be 1.1x and the roll arts will be 1.2x analog and will be added to the finish. I want this too -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 22:10:58 Isn't that what it's like if the increment magnification suddenly increases? Also, S Roll and Roll Arts seem to be on the finish line even now. It's treated as PA, isn't it? -- 2025-07-30 (Wed) 23:24:33 Adjustment details Almost all of the things listed here that I was looking for are coming. I believed you (Palm Crew) Also, it would be perfect if the Increment magnification was higher than 25%...? -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 17:14:44 The down value has finally arrived. I was surprised that Onthro was strengthened -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 17:29:57 Counter Bullet also appears in Onthro, and it feels like it has the same effect as S-roll shooting on Onthro. If you can stock up on SB in Onslo during the finish, you'll be stronger when you start saving up the next chain.Thanks for increasing the number of counter bullet shots! Will it be 6 shots? -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 17:44:25 Onsuro has been strengthened, but Claus has also been strengthened in power, and it seems that the amount of increase per chain of Incly has been revised upwards, so the firepower of chain combos may increase quite a bit. Anyway, I'm looking forward to it. -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 18:45:04 I'm also happy to strengthen Retain. 101 chains or more... If you can hold 150 chains at best, it's pretty delicious -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 18:48:12 Onsuro is unfortunate, explodes, and misses the skill. It depends on the power, but I might not use it after all -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 19:09:48 If you just look at the adjustment details, most of the parts that would cause problems with explosions have been improved, so you can actually touch it and decide -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 19:16:39 I felt tired when I entered Onthrot due to an SR input error, but now I don't have any worries -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 00:39:37 It was a bit stressful not being able to move and take counters on the spot, so I'm thankful for Onsloh's strengthening + making counters work... -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 15:47:00 Does that mean that from now on I can take counters in Onsloh? It's innovative -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 19:33:49 I guess it will be used like a guard in other jobs. Looks like it'll be hard to get used to -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 20:45:18 I don't know how much Onthro's firepower will be strengthened, but in melee battles I'll use S roll to earn chains and stock up on SB, and in boss fights I'll use Onthro's counters to stock SB. -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 20:59:54 Depending on the total amount of Onslow + Counter Bullet, you might end up cutting off Finish Advance and firing Counter Onslow during the finish. Well, I feel like it's a close reinforcement to prevent that from becoming the optimal solution... -- 2025-08-05 (Tue) 22:55:07 I don't think it will be strengthened enough to go that far. I wonder if it will be possible to simply use S roll shooting + counter bullet in On-Sloth -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 01:05:38 If the down value is limited to chain finish, the down timing will become more dependent on Gu and it will be uneven... It seems to have a negative effect depending on the PT -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 06:48:38 Chain Trigger Increase Power increase per chain 2% ktkl -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 17:26:31 So the maximum is 350%? The above tree prediction is correct -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 17:30:03 Oh, it's correct! But I was just wishful thinking that it would be good if it went up by that much, so I'm surprised that it went up so much -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 21:33:21 Chain Trigger & Increase It was written in the explanation that the down value will increase. The amount of increase in the down value is not listed separately, so it is probably the same multiplier as the power After Increase's 101, the increase per chain is an unexpected 2%, double the amount up to 100 (up to 0.5% until now) The specs of other changed skills are not originally listed in the skill details, so it needs to be verified -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 17:37:24 Cloth Bullet's power: 380 → 425 The power distribution has also been adjusted, so check the power when uncharged, the power of the first hit and the second hit, etc. -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 17:39:25 Distribution of the listed power of Cloth Bullet: 61% + 39% when charged, 23% + 36% when uncharged (total 59%, (Former was 63%) Judging from the stated power, the charged version seems to have been strengthened by about 11.84% from the original, and the uncharged version seems to have been strengthened by about 4.74% from the original.Also, Onslaught's strengthening is modest with power from 135 to 140 -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 21:21:57 I feel like it's really strong when riding a long range, but for now, I just want to know if SB can still be consumed by Rave -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 22:42:28 The range of reinforcement of Claus is too large, so from now on it seems like Claus can be used at any time. Maybe we don't even need Onslo -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 23:41:04 Nonchakros has a power of 250, which means Onsro's two shots have a power of 280, and C Kuro C Kuro Onsro's Onsro is stable. -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 01:00:03 Onsloh doesn't ride long range, so when it doesn't have a target, it's Close, and when it does, it's the same as Onsloh and before reinforcement -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 01:06:35 GJ was the one who made the custom adjustments for Aimless Rain, but if they also adjusted Rave's T3, it might have been GJ. -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 01:58:48 Ah, 1.15 times the long range makes N Claus 287.5, so does it win? Thank you -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 02:22:04 I guess the counter bullet hit 4 → 8 (I confirmed that the counter in Onslaught gave +9) -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 19:07:21 Overall, it's a super big move that exceeds expectations, and I'm afraid of the recoil -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 21:39:05 150 chain is stupidly strong, so from now on I think it will be 150 chain 〆 as a basic DPS. I tried using Wael, but it's a huge power up -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 23:45:41 I tried various things, but I only had 150 chain 〆 and just around 100 chains, same as before, and DPS didn't change. It might just be that there was no waste even if I accumulated more than 101 -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 13:27:54 If I went to 4-player Wael without changing the battle, the DPS increased dramatically... -- 2025-08-07 (Thursday) 21:08:06 It's the same here that the DPS has increased dramatically, but in both the limited play where you finish around 100 chains as before and the limited play where you save up to 150 chains, the amount of increase in DPS from before the maintenance was almost the same. In other words, the only point in intentionally aiming for 150 chains is to save up for when you're about to break out, and normally you should be able to finish around 100 as usual -- 2025-08-08 (Fri) 03:56:06 However, due to the Hail CT, when I jump out 100 chains, I don't lose anything at all, so it's definitely a big improvement. Thanks -- 2025-08-08 (Fri) 03:56:55 Below 100, there is not only a 1% reduction but also a reduction in cooldown time. If it is 2%, it will have an effect that more than makes up for it, but if it exceeds 150, it will obviously be negative, so I think it is important not to exceed 150. -- 2025-08-08 (Fri) 08:56:39 Is the invincibility at the start of SB Advance's PA charge getting quite long? -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 19:21:26 Probably the invincibility lasts until the start of the finish -- 2025-08-06 (Wednesday) 19:49:02 Other enhancements are amazing, but this one might have had the biggest impact on combat behavior. Seriously super long. You have plenty of invincibility time from when you start charging from SB stock until you start finishing. -- 2025-08-06 (Wed) 23:00:30 I haven't investigated it, but with Strike Back Advance, is it an effect that makes you invincible for all frames from the start of charging to the end of the movement of the PA to which Strike Back is applied, rather than how many seconds you are invincible? Can you find out by charging the damage zone with SB on Aimless or Rave T3, which has the longest attack time? -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 13:06:58 I think it's invincible from the beginning when PA is active. This time, I feel like I can now charge before activating PA. -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 13:13:53 Oh, that's right. Isn't that Chain Finish Advanced? I don't know because I only remember that before the adjustment, the PA with the SB on it while storing the chain was easily hit by bullets -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 13:31:25 I remember that the effect of the previous SBA did not activate until after the PA started operating and was left overnight. So while it's charging, it's almost defenseless, and when it's fully charged and immediately after the PA starts, it's attacked normally. So this time, I became invincible from the start of charging. Seriously comfortable -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 13:40:22 I was invincible even before the chain was being stored and before the finish was activated. Thanks to this, as long as I had SB, I didn't have to waste the finish because I was hit and the finish started at the same time. -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 13:46:29 Even with SB, I have a lot of memories of it being wasted, so I can't say anything... -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 14:45:51 Previously, the invincibility at the start of charging was very short (actually, the invincibility was just to enable Noncha to be activated), so wouldn't you just charge a little and get hit? -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 15:02:42 What do you think? I don't remember much, but from watching the video, it might be true. In any case, I used to be invincible from the moment I started charging, so it's super convenient. -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 17:54:37 Yeah, even when I solo during the current limited time period, I can feel that even with the last two Zerevins, it's become much easier to chain around without having to worry about when to charge. -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 19:39:41 It should have been simply, ``The invincibility of the charge part is only for a moment right after the start & due to the lag, the invincibility of the PA part (originally all motions) is delayed and you may get attacked right after the finish starts.'' This time, the invincibility of the charge part has been extended to the point where it can be maintained until the charge is completed (and the lag hit is covered as a result?) -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 19:46:19 I think the chain finish advance is more affected by the lag. Since the start condition for the finish is for the charge PA to hit, the finish will not start unless there is a hit detection communication = invincibility will not occur = affected by lag. With SB Advance, as long as you have SB, PA is invincible, so there is no need for communication. -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 20:30:26 It's invincible from the start of charging, but if you keep charging it, it seems that invincibility ends -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 14:38:47 It's so comfortable that it feels like a lie... SBA is so long that you don't have to worry about anything when finishing, you don't have to worry about the chain count running out because the retainer is up to 135, you can ride gimmicks without hesitation, it's OK even if you try to evade and explode, the counter is actually strengthened thanks to counter bullet, and above all, the firepower is greatly increased... I think it's on par with Te in terms of divine adjustment. -- 2025-08-08 (Fri) 07:01:17 I guess the only time I use Onthrot is when I do a solo combo of C Claus x 2 Onthrot x 2 -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 00:41:24 I use it when countering at a delicate timing when I can't chain right after the finish -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 11:37:45 I see, if you want to increase your firepower even a little, you need Onthroat, right? My body is used to Roll Arts, so I'm not good at using Onthroat right away... -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 22:26:39 There's also one in the tree above, but if you don't have a long range, use it as a finishing touch. After that, I'll use the chain CT -- 2025-08-10 (Sun) 12:14:31 Isn't there a good story about being able to fulfill the conditions for activating Blitz Cascade with 3 roll arts...I kind of knew that it would be impossible to activate it continuously because in order to perform a roll art, you must also perform an S roll. -- 2025-10-01 (Wed) 19:19:12 It's probably not compatible with Blitz. If you can accumulate SB with Adras Perfection, that's fine, and you can Hail twice with Celeste -- 2025-10-01 (Wed) 20:26:01 Kasuke will spin freely with the chain -- 2025-10-01 (Wed) 22:02:31 If you shoot Hail, the fastest is the echo max, and as expected Gu is a blitz -- 2025-10-01 (Wed) 23:56:47 I thought about a lot of things, but since Gu wants to shoot a finishing shot at the time of a break, I think the two options are Adrus, which is a double finisher, or a stable blitz -- 2025-10-02 (Thursday) 17:11:19 Decay Bullet's pursuit is also counted in the chain, and the chain advances at a tremendous speed, so I think Blitz is the only choice -- 2025-10-02 (Thursday) 17:45:11 Seriously, it's a blitz -- 2025-10-02 (Thu) 18:40:41 If there were a few more follow-up attacks, it would have been an option, but with 30 shots, it's just 3 counter bullets, so considering that there is also a SB, I feel like it's not good after all -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 00:35:04 The weakening effects of After Blast itself and Decay Bullet itself are missing by one compared to the others, and Blitz is the most stable for follow-up attacks such as Trigger Attack, and any of them will advance the chain, so I feel like I can easily make up for Perfection's SB and get the change. -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 01:39:22 Hmm, the trigger is actually 25s and two counters are stable, so if it's against a large opponent, it's not even a basis for discussion. With PB change, it seems like you can catch up by 1-2 times + 2%, and 7% each time, and catch up by 11%, and every 20 seconds, SB is roughly 10% once every two times, and it seems to increase by about 3-5%. There are some cases where you can't dodge due to the combination of down scares, and in this case, Perfection also has its strengths. Also, Decay's follow-up is 30 times x 3 shots, so it can accelerate for 90 shots, so in terms of counter bullets, it's about 11 shots. Blitz has a large number of hits in other pursuit attacks. In any case, don't worry if the recast doesn't fit perfectly. I wish it would be 15s instead of 20s. -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 11:28:08 There was important information on the Adras page, so I'll share it here as well. S-roll dodge does not activate Adras' trigger attack or echo shortening (I confirmed this myself). You can shorten it by guarding with Onslo. This specification? If you think about it, Adoras is definitely tough. -- 2025-10-06 (Mon) 02:28:20 If you cut Onthro without SP, it might activate because it does a back S roll with only weapon aku. It may also be activated by front left/right rolls. -- 2025-10-06 (Mon) 10:13:58 Don't worry about it, just check it. Shortening does not occur even with knuckle weapon attack avoidance other than S roll. Just to be sure, the Perfection itself will be activated. It's also written in the explanation that evasion is also included. It's the recast shortening that doesn't activate, and the explanation doesn't mention evasion, so it seems like evasion actions aren't targeted in the first place. -- 2025-10-06 (Mon) 11:39:48 I saw it in X and tried it out, but it seems that even if you cancel PA with Roll Arts or Onslow, the continuous PA judgment remains. That's why you can open up a moment by holding down PA, and then use roll arts repeatedly to activate a cascade. It seems like a bug though as it consumes PP. If you think about it, it seems like Roll Arts is just not a target for cascade. -- 2025-10-04 (Sat) 18:34:05 When I tried Celeste, Flores activated it with a finishing charge, so I'm glad it didn't get crushed. Hail after AB also increased from 70%, and the chain rotation increased, and when EXOP increased the down value, Palette Rave's down value of 600 was equivalent to one PA. -- 2025-10-03 (Fri) 00:22:47 When fighting in something like Alter Realm, the chain number and drop display overlap, making it really hard to see the chain number, but isn't this something you can do with the settings? I've sent an official request for something to be done, but... -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 12:45:13 Other than the drop display, there are other things that sometimes don't show up. I also sent it when the service first started, but it hasn't changed so far. It would be nice if it were displayed on the palette like other weapon gauges. -- 2026-02-04 (Wed) 13:08:20 Luther is super compatible and fun. 68000 came out -- 2026-04-09 (Thursday) 20:51:26 I'm really happy that FiWaSlGu seems to be evenly matched against a proper boss who is not a scarecrow like Wael who is full-body and doesn't move against him -- 2026-04-11 (Sat) 01:56:47 Or rather, if they act like idiots like this time, Gu is usually stronger than SlFi. Wa tends to lose. -- 2026-04-12 (Sun) 08:18:01 Wa is probably even, or maybe a little better, but SlFi and other classes require fierce nursing care to produce firepower, so Gu, which can generate maximum firepower on its own as a standalone, is wonderful -- 2026-04-12 (Sun) 19:52:32 Luther is super fun, but there are so many times when I get red eyes that I'm really worried about whether to remove the sub Wa and add Ra -- 2026-04-11 (Sat) 02:26:57 Name: Cancel attachment Delete key: Please refrain from making comments that violate public order and morals (incitement, slander, discriminatory expressions, obscene expressions, etc.). Also, line breaks are generally not recommended. Avoid unnecessary line breaks. For more information, see About the comment field. Please go to the Chat Bulletin Board for chats, the Complaint Bulletin Board for various complaints, the Consultation Bulletin Board for consultations about equipment, etc., and the official website for adjustment ideas and requests.

