
=== [Hunter Class Skills & Data] ===
=== REFRESH NODE: 2026-06-12 04:20:37 UTC ===
Hunter HTML ConvertTime 0.323 sec. Class (Add-on Skill) Hunter (Hu) Fighter (Fi) Ranger (Ra) Gunner (Gu) Force (Fo) Tector (Te) Braver (Br) Bouncer (Bo) Waker (Wa) Slayer (Sl) EX Style Adrus Blitz Celeste ▼ Open Table of Contents Table of Contents Overview Class Skills War Cry Massive Hunter Massive Hunter Short Cycle Massive Hunter Extra Shield Flash Guard Iron Will Just Guard PP Gain Slow Landing Charge Hu Hunter Arts Avenge Hunter Arts Avenge PP Gain Hunter Arts Just Paring Hunter Arts Paring Advance Hunter Reflect Fort Sword Arts Charge Avenge Sword Attack Alternation Sword Attack Extra Sword Arts Overcharge Sword Guard Counter Sword Guard Counter Plus Sword SC Alternation Wired Anchor Avenge Wired Anchor Strike Back Wired Avenge Range Collection Wired Attack Extra Wired Anchor Advance Wired Anchor Just Paring Crossing Feather Partisan Attack Extra Volgra Raptor Volgra Raptor Short Recast Assault Charge Assault Charge Avenge Partisan Quick Assault Partisan Parry Another Assault Same Arts Skip Attack Hu Another Arts Skip Attack Hu Class skills to be implemented in the future Hunter subclass Hunter EX style Hunter as a subclass Comments Overview The official abbreviation is Hu (Hunter). It can be equipped with the Sword (PA), which is easy to use and has no weak points, the Wired Lance (PA), which has a wide attack range, and the Counter-oriented Partisan (PA). A class that can use guarding and parrying techniques to evade enemy attacks and deal great damage with counter attacks. It is a strong and self-contained class that attracts enemies with War Cry, withstands attacks with Massive Hunter and delivers a powerful charge PA, and uses Photon Arts Avenge to further increase its power and earn the enemy's hate value to serve as a shield and sword for the party. However, Massive Hunter has a long recast time even though its effect time is short when learned alone. You will also need to adjust the short cycle acquisition level to the operational purpose, and be calm enough to use guard or counter during the cooldown time. Hunter subclass Hunter's EX style Hunter as a subclass Comments ▲ ▼ Class skills "Yellow background color" is a skill added on February 5, 2025 War Cry Massive Hunter Flash Guard Iron Will Just Guard PP Gain Slow Landing Charge Hu Hunter Arts Avenge Massive Hunter Short Cycle Massive Hunter Extra Shield Hunter Reflect Fort Same Arts Skip Attack Hu Another Arts Skip Attack Hu Hunter Arts Just Paring Sword Attack Extra Wired Attack Extra Partisan Attack Extra Hunter Arts Paring Advance Sword Guard Counter Sword Arts Overcharge Wired Anchor Advance Hunter Arts Avenge PP Gain Sword Guard Counter Plus Crossing Feather Wired Anchor Just Paring Volgra Raptor Sword Arts Charge Avenge Sword Attack Alternation Wired Anchor Avenge Wired Avenge Range Collection Assault Charge Volgraptor Short Recast Sword SC Alternation Wired Anchor Strikeback Assault Charge Avenge Partisan Parry Another Assault Partisan Quick Assault The skills in red are exclusive to the main class. Skill points can only be earned when clearing Trainier for the first time, and can be used by all classes. The current maximum skill point is 47. (=Aerio 20SP + Ritem 10SP + Kuvaris 10SP + Stear 7SP) ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Added class skill "Hunter Reflect Fort" 2023/06/07 Update Added class skill "Sword SC Alternation" Added class skill "Crossing Feather" Added class skill "Volgrapter Short Recast" 2022/12/07 Update Added class skill "Massive Hunter Extra Shield" Added class skill "Sword Attack Alternation" Added class skill "Partisan Quick Assault" Added class skill "Wired Avenge Range Collection" 2022/06/08 Added class skill "Massive Hunter Short Cycle" Added class skill "Sword Arts Overcharge" Added class skill "Partisan Attack Extra" Added class skill "Wired Anchor Strike Back" 2021/12/15 Class skill "Sword Arts Charge Avenge" added Class skill "Wired Anchor Avenge" added Class skill "Hunter Arts Parrying Advance" added Class skill "Partisan Parry Another Assault" added ▲ ▼ War Cry [Active Skill] Attracts the attention of surrounding enemies for a certain period of time. Additionally, you will be more likely to be targeted by the enemy you hit. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Hate effect 800% Effect time 30 seconds Recast 30 seconds There is no hate reset effect. It seems to be a process of adding a fixed value. In boss enemy battles that you joined late, you won't be able to get enough Top Hate in one War Cry, but you can get it by doing it multiple times. However, depending on your stance, it may become difficult for other players to fight. If you decide to target an enemy, you want to make it easier for not only yourself but also other players to fight. Rather than attracting enemies and protecting allies, the main purpose of this skill is to control the enemy's direction and position in a way that makes it easier for allies to fight enemies (make it easier to score counters, make it easier to involve multiple enemies, etc.). This is especially useful in situations where the boss is moving around while the player taking the hate moves, or where multiple bosses appear. When you have the boss's hate, it is recommended that you do not change the boss's position or direction as much as possible. However, there may be situations where it is better to keep them away from the ocean where they are forced to swim or in forests with poor visibility. For bosses that use backsteps a lot, it is also effective to have them turn their backs to the mountain side. With the addition of Long Range Advantage as a skill for long-range weapons, the advantage of continuing to take hate from enemies in multiplayer boss battles has increased. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Upwardly revised the hate effect (200% → 800%) Expanded the range that attracts the attention of surrounding enemies ▲ ▼ Massive Hunter [Active Skill] Reduces damage received for a certain period of time and prevents being launched or blown away by enemy attacks. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 Damage rate Main 50% 45% 40% 35% 30% Secondary 70% 65% 60% 55% 50% Effect time 30 seconds Recast 120 seconds Gains temporary toughness (super armor) state. It is especially effective in boss battles as it greatly reduces the damage taken, but the recast time is long. It is particularly compatible with Sword PA Streak Calibur, making it easier to temporarily earn high DPS. It can be used not only as a countermeasure against rampage in the second half, but also as a companion for fixing the initial hate. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Reduced recast time (180 seconds → 120 seconds) 2023/06/07 Increased damage rate when used in subclasses ▲ ▼ Massive Hunter Short Cycle In exchange for reducing Massive Hunter's effect time, shorten the time until it can be used again. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 Effect time 25 seconds 20 seconds 15 seconds 10 seconds 5 seconds Recast 100 seconds 80 seconds 60 seconds 40 seconds 20 seconds For each Lv., shorten recast in exchange for -5 seconds of effect time. This skill alone has no clear benefit, and its true value is demonstrated when combined with "Massive Hunter Extra Shield". For hunter weapons, the wired lance weapon action horizontal derivation cannot be affected by the effect of "Massive Hunter Extra Shield", so there is also an option to lower the short cycle level in order to complete the horizontal derivation using Massive Hunter's super armor. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Reduced recast time (140/115/90/60/30 seconds → 100/80/60/40/20 seconds) ▲ ▼ Massive Hunter Extra Shield Adds a shield when Massive Hunter's effect ends. The shield is only deployed while the PA is active, reducing damage received and preventing launches and blowbacks. If the shield is attacked a certain number of times while deployed, it will disappear. Image Lv. 1 2 3 Damage taken (main) 60% Damage taken (sub) 70% Shield durability (main) 1 2 3 Shield durability (sub) ``While PA is activated'' seems to include charging of PA, and swords and partisans that use a lot of charging are especially likely to benefit from this. Since there is no hunter weapon specified in the conditions, a shield will occur on other class weapons.A shield will occur with Taris PA, but a shield will not occur with special bullets fired using techniques after PA is deployed.The launcher's Divine Impact will not be activated regardless of whether it is being charged or not (It seems to be a bug, confirmed as of 2023/06/26) ▼ Adjustment / correction history 2023/06/07 Increased damage rate Adjusted so that the number of shield durability times when used in a subclass is the same as when used in the main class ▲ ▼ Flash Guard Reduces damage received. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Damage rate Main 90% 89% 88% 87% 86% 85% 84% 83% 82% 80% Sub 99% 98% 97% 96% 95% 94% 93% 92% 91% 90% Image Lv. 11 12 13 14 15 Damage rate Main 79% 78% 77% 76% 75% - - - - - Sub 89% 88% 87% 86% 85% - - - - - ▼ Adjustment/modification history 2022/06/08 Lv.11-15 added ▲ ▼ Iron Will When you receive damage equal to or greater than your remaining HP, 1 HP remains. Invincibility time occurs when activated. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 10 seconds Recast 180 seconds This is a passive skill that, if learned, will be activated automatically when the player receives damage that reduces their HP to 0. It does not activate when the remaining HP is 1. Even after the recast is finished and you can use it again, there is no particular effect. It is not possible to visualize the recast time, so if you want to know if it can be activated, you need to know the last time it was activated. The recast time count starts immediately after the effect is activated. ▲ ▼ Just Guard PP Gain PP is recovered when an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action. *For hunter weapons only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery amount +20 Sword, wired lance, partisan Weapon actions are supported. The amount of PP recovery listed is only the amount added by the effect of this skill, and if the weapon action itself has a PP recovery effect on the hit or counter skill, that amount of PP will be recovered in addition. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Changed the skill name from "All Guard" to "Just Guard PP Gain". Changed the skill effect to "PP is recovered when an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action" ▲ ▼ Slow Landing Charge Hu While charging PA, the falling speed becomes slower. *Hunter weapons only Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ Hunter Arts Avenge If you are attacked by an enemy within a certain amount of time after PA is activated, the power of that PA will increase. *Hunter weapon only Image Lv. 1 Power 150% Down value increase 150% "Activation" in the description refers to the moment you release the button if it is a charge PA. When activated, the character is surrounded by a red aura along with a high-pitched sound effect that sounds like repelling an attack. Can be used in conjunction with Hunter Arts Just Paring. If successful, Avenge can be activated with no damage. Although it is not mentioned in the in-game explanation, when activated, a robust state is applied only while the PA is in use. This allows you to ignore knockdowns and blowbacks and hit PA. Please note that there is no damage reduction. Can be activated even with attacks that cannot be blocked. You can also use the damage zone and status abnormality shock to knock back. Even with attacks that are impossible to block or evade, which were introduced in Dark Fals Souras, if you time it right, you can still take damage and still perform Avenge. If you use it, it's best to also use Massive Hunter to limit the damage. Skill Activation (C)SEGA Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Changed the specifications so that the down value increases ▲ ▼ Hunter Arts Avenge PP Gain When Hunter Arts Avenge is activated, PP is recovered. Image Lv. 1 PP Recovery Amount +20 If there are PAs with different stages like Streak Calibur, each success will recover PP +20. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Upward adjustment of PP recovery amount (+10 → +20) ▲ ▼ Hunter Arts Just Paring Disables attacks from enemies when PA is activated. *Exclusively for Hunter Weapons Image Lv. 1 - - A skill where a guard judgment appears momentarily at the beginning of each PA, and when successful, invincibility time is granted. Since it is a guard judgment, it does not respond to attacks that cannot be blocked. There will be a sound effect when the attack is successful, but you will be attacked as is. Can be used as a counter depending on the step. Unless you have learned Hunter Arts Paring Advance, you will only be invincible for a short time. There are many PAs such as Sword PA and Twist Zapper that are normally hit midway through. Reception hours are shorter than Hunter Arts Avenge's reception hours. The reception time for Hunter Arts Avenge does not automatically become invincibility time, so it is important to judge the timing. If this is successful, Hunter Arts Avenge will also be activated at the same time. Therefore, it becomes a powerful counterattack that increases its power while becoming invincible, and can be used even if invincibility disappears due to its robust state. When activated, an effect occurs in which wind swirls around the player character, and a sound effect that is stronger than that of Hunter Arts Avenge is heard. Since it is nullified, success or failure can be judged based on the fact that the number of damage taken will not be displayed. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/10/05 Extended the time to nullify attacks when Photon Arts is activated ▲ ▼ Hunter Arts Paring Advance When Hunter Arts Just Paring is successful, additional invincibility time will occur. *Main class/Hunter weapon only Image Lv. 1 - - The length of the added invincibility time is not constant, and it seems to continue until the cancelable timing after the final hit for each PA. PAs with long motions, including the charged version of Twist Zapper, are especially beneficial. ▲ ▼ Hunter Reflect Fort Implemented on February 5, 2025 When an enemy is nearby, when an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action, when Hunter Arts Avenge is activated, or when attacked during Massive Hunter and Massive Hunter Extra Shield, counterattack with a shock wave and reduce the damage taken by yourself and surrounding characters for a certain period of time. *Main class/Hunter weapon only Image Lv. 1 Damage rate 50% Effect time 5 seconds Recast 15 seconds Disables attacks with non-hunter weapons, does not activate when equipped with a non-hunter weapon and gets hit while in Massive Hunter (Extra Shield) state, or when guarded by EX Try Shield. If the attack is nullified by an action other than the target, such as EX Try Shield or Step Evasion, it will not be activated even if the Massive Hunter (Extra Shield) state is in effect. If you are using a multi-weapon consisting of a hunter weapon and another class weapon, and are hit by a massive hunter (extra shield), it will activate if the current weapon form is a hunter weapon, but will not activate if it is a weapon from another class. The recast time count starts immediately after the effect is activated. The damage reduction effect will not be activated for the bullet that triggered the activation of the skill. This applies to cases where the attack was not nullified due to being hit by a bullet during Massive Hunter, etc. Counterattack power 425 ▲ ▼ Sword Arts Charge Avenge If you are attacked by an enemy while PA has been charged for more than a certain period of time, PA will be automatically activated with Hunter Arts Avenge applied. *Main class/Sword only Image Lv. 1 - - After Sword PA is fully charged, if you continue to charge it and receive an attack, it will automatically release PA. Since it is not possible to activate automatically immediately after completing the first charge, if you want to use this skill alone to achieve the fastest charge PA Avenge, you will need to activate it manually as usual. By learning Sword Arts Overcharge, you can automatically activate it immediately after completing the second stage of charging, demonstrating its true value. Even if you haven't learned the Hunter Art Just Paring, the attack that triggers Avenge will be nullified and activated. However, unblockable attacks like Cragbear's grab cannot be nullified. This skill itself does not have the effect of making you invincible, so if you have not learned Hunter Arts Paring Advance, you will receive damage if you are hit again during an attack. If you have learned Hunter Arts Paring Advance, the effect of that skill will also be activated and you will become invincible. The charging time required to activate Charge Avenge is twice the time required to charge PA. Approximately 1.5 seconds in time. When ready to activate, an effect will occur where the hand holding the sword will glow. It's a good idea to look there when determining the timing by eye. When in standby mode, the character glows slightly blue-white. See also the video on Rappy.commu. It depends on the enemy's attack, but if it's fully charged, it can be a hit. Skill Activation (C)SEGA Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▲ ▼ Sword Attack Alternation Hunter Arts Avenge After activation, the first normal attack will change into a powerful attack. *For sword only Image Lv. 1 - - A high-speed thrust that stops before the lock part, followed by a sweep from right to left. As it looks, the judgment is wide and it is easy to involve multiple people. Furthermore, there are guard points all around from the start to the end of the motion. In addition to long steps and a wide range, it is an excellent attack method that has the same high single-shot power as the 5th hit of a normal attack and the amount of PP recovered as the 4th hit. Be careful as you cannot block unblockable attacks such as Cragbear type grabs. It has the property of ``activating in place of the normal attack that was originally supposed to occur.'' In other words, if you make a normal attack after activating this skill, the order will be "Alternation → Normal 2-5". By combining it with Arts Skip Attack class skills, it becomes possible to perform coordinated attacks such as "PA1 → PA1 Avenge → Alternation → Normal 4-5" and "PA1 → PA2 Avenge → Alternation → Normal 5". The route from Alter to Normal 5 has guard points all around it that last for nearly 2 seconds, making it a combo route that combines firepower and safety at a high level. If the activation timing overlaps with "Sword Guard Counter Plus", Sword Guard Counter Plus will take priority and the alternation will be activated on the next normal attack. If simultaneous presses of dive attack are enabled, dive attack will take priority if the inputs overlap. You need to be a little careful when you want to take out the alternator at high places. Power 480, PP recovery 15 ▲ ▼ Sword Attack Extra The number of normal attack stages increases to a maximum of 5 stages. Image Lv. 1 - - Excellent power and range, and excellent safety. However, as a normal attack, the motion is long, and there is a gap between activation and damage confirmation. When activated, an omnidirectional guard point is created and lasts until weapon actions can be used. Also, it is durable until the motion is completely finished. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/10/05 The power has been revised upward in the 5th stage (450→500) The omnidirectional guard point has been extended in the 5th stage 2022/06/08 In the 5th stage of a normal attack, an omnidirectional guard point has been added when activated The motion speed has been revised upward in the 5th stage of a normal attack. On the 5th stage of the normal attack, the movement distance has been adjusted upward so that it can move left and right. ▲ ▼ Sword Arts Overcharge If you charge PA for a certain period of time and activate it, the power of that PA will increase. *Sword only Image Lv. 1 Power 200% Charge time 3 seconds When the specified charge time is reached, the character emits a light similar to the photon blast effect. For main Hu, Sword Arts Charge Avenge can also be activated at the same time. When the overcharge is completed, the conditions for activating Sword Arts Charge Avenge are met, so if the timing is right, automatic Avenge is possible without loss of power. Once charging is complete, it is extremely important to be able to jump into the enemy's attack range and automatically nullify the attack while launching a powerful counterattack with almost no loss of firepower. It is especially useful against opponents who cannot grasp the timing of guard or evasion, or against strong enemies where getting hit can be fatal. The power is doubled for 3 seconds of charging, so if you don't activate Avenge, you should basically use it as a standby attack. However, this is not the case with the Twisted Zapper, which has a longer PA motion and a higher total power, and its DPS is improved compared to a 1-stage charge. ▲ ▼ Sword Guard Counter A counter is automatically generated when a Just Guard is successfully performed by a weapon action. *Sword only Image Lv. 1 - - If you use Just Guard without learning this skill, you will be stiff for a moment. Power 200, PP recovery amount 8 ▼ Adjustment/modification history 2025/02/05 Expanded attack range Upward adjustment of movement distance ▲ ▼ Sword Guard Counter Plus When the Sword Guard Counter is activated, by performing a normal attack, an additional counter will be generated. Image Lv. 1 - - Same motion as the 5th hit of a normal attack, but different. Becomes invincible while attacking. The simple power is 1.4 times higher than the step counter and is normally 1.4 times the 5th hit. Combined with guard counter, PP recovery power is also high. Since the onset is slow, it may miss enemies that move around at high speed. Power 630, PP recovery amount 20 ▼ Adjustment/correction history 2025/02/05 Expanded attack range Relaxed step cancel timing https://pso2.jp/players/news/29257/ Upwardly revised motion speed Upwardly revised movement distance and adjusted to be able to move left and right Adjusted upwardly PP recovery amount (15→20) ▲ ▼ Sword SC Alternation Implemented on June 7, 2023 Step counter changes to an attack that quickly charges the enemy. *For sword only Image Lv. 1 - - Power: 600 The basic step counter power of the sword is 540, so it is about 10% more powerful. PP recovery amount remains unchanged. It also tracks and attacks enemies in the air. Without skills, it would not be possible to maintain altitude, but it is now possible to descend with an air step and then ascend again with an SC alter, or engage the enemy at a high place with an SC alter activated on the ground. The distance traveled will also be extended. The motion remains the same, but the effects and sound effects have been changed, making it a flash of running covered in purple electricity. ▲ ▼ Wired Anchor Avenge If you use a weapon action following the PA activated by Hunter Arts Avenge, its power will increase. *For main class/wired lance only Image Lv. 1 Power 150% It will not be applied if other actions such as movement or normal attacks are sandwiched between the PA that activates Avenge and the weapon action that immediately follows. Even if you use it, there are situations and behaviors where anchors and derivative pursuit attacks won't hit. The only effect is an increase in power. Please note that the robustness of Arts Avenge and the invincibility of Arts Paring and Advance are not attached to weapon actions. If you want toughness, you need to use Massive Hunter before Avenge PA. If you don't master the timing when you can avenge each enemy's attack, and remember which ones can be hit with the various derivatives of weapon actions with anchor avenging, you won't be able to fully demonstrate your effectiveness. Training required. It is also applied immediately after activating Hunter Arts Avenge with a multi-weapon target sword or partisan. Even neutrals and flying kicks with low DPS can produce DPS equivalent to a slightly high-firepower PA if Avenge is applied, so it's a good idea to use them if you can easily hit them. If you connect Sword PA Avenge → Weapon with Avenge back input → Sword Attack Alter, it becomes an easy and powerful combo that combines power, safety, PP recovery, and short action, and also maintains distance because the retreat can be compensated for by Attack Alter's contact with the enemy. If you stock up on Wired Anchor Strike Back and combine it, you can create a super long-term high DPS combo of ``Sword or Partisan side Avenge PA → Complete Avenge side weapon attack side input → Wire side Avenge PA → Complete Avenge side weapon attack side input''. If you use a sword, you can additionally use Attack Alter. It's a good idea to use it when the enemy is downed by another weapon's Avenge PA. It is especially easy to aim for activation against bosses that support BREAK down. Even if you combine Noncha, the combo time is too long, over 20 seconds in total, so there are few enemies who can complete the knockdown even if you continue from the beginning to the end. Especially if you want to use Photon Blast. However, since it can produce high DPS evenly, its strength is that it can be easily adjusted to match the enemy's down time. Let's make adjustments such as the presence or absence of wire weapons, the use of different types, and the earlier release of side-input mowing finishes. ▲ ▼ Wired Anchor Strike Back After learning Wired Anchor Just Paring and successfully nullifying an attack with a weapon action, the first PA used will be activated with Hunter Arts Avenge applied. *Main class/wired lance only Image Lv. 1 - - Avenge effect is stock type. After a successful parry, it will not be consumed until you use PA. It is retained even if you perform a normal attack, various movement, or weapon action before using PA. It will not disappear over time, and if it is the same weapon, it will not disappear even if you swap weapon palettes. It is retained even when riding on a floating board. The conditions for disappearance are switching to a non-multi-weapon weapon, moving to town, and being unable to fight. This skill is activated not only by parrying, but also when disabled by guard points generated by each derivative of Wired Anchor Advance. If a weapon action is in progress, effects other than Hu skills, such as EX Try Shield and Reflect Shield from Halfa Environmental Experiment Section Investigation, will also meet the activation conditions. Hunter Arts Paring Advance is applied to Avenge activated by this skill, so there will be an invincibility period until the PA ends. Furthermore, Wired Anchor Avenge is also applied to the weapon action immediately after PA. It is retained even if you switch to a multi-weapon weapon, so if you are fighting mainly with a sword or partisan, you can use Wire PA like an active skill. ▲ ▼ Wired Avenge Range Collection Hunter Arts Avenge's power increase with distance is always the maximum. *For wired lance only Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ Wired Attack Extra Increases the number of normal attack stages to a maximum of 4 stages. Image Lv. 1 - - ▲ ▼ Wired Anchor Advance Weapon Action By inputting a direction when activated, move in that direction along with the attack. By inputting direction to the left or right, you can perform a sustained area attack while holding down the weapon action button. *For wired lance only Image Lv. 1 - - You can select four types of behavior by not inputting direction (no) or by inputting forward, backward, left and right inputs between when the anchor hits and when the pursuit is activated. The motion is the same on the ground and in the air. The power and PP recovery amount is roughly in the order of left and right (with derivation) > front > none = back > left and right (without derivation). If you are locked on, if you continue inputting the direction from the moment you press the weapon action button, you can get the desired derivative. If you don't have a lock, if you don't press the direction key after confirming the hit, you'll end up extending it in the direction of the day after tomorrow. Due to the effect changes in the February 2025 update, it has become easier to confirm the first hit. Can stay in the air except for left and right derivatives. Just like when not learned, various derivations are possible even when hitting targets other than enemies (containers, Tames, etc.). Action Input direction Notes Negaze None Power 185 Always appropriate distance (actually 222) Recovery PP 22 Flying kick Before Power 380 No appropriate distance Same as when the skill is not acquired Recovery PP 15 Side negate Left/right (short press) Power 200 Press and hold the button to switch to the following swings Recovery PP 8 Swing + negate (Maximum 26 HIT) Left/right (long press) Power 80×25+680 (total 2680 518f=about 8.6 seconds required to complete) Recovery PP 3×8+6×17+11 (total 137) Mowing + Retreat After Power 270 Always appropriate distance (actually 324) Retreat distance changes depending on how long the button is pressed Recovery PP 10 No input (neutral) It can be used continuously with almost no recovery. It has the same power as a dive attack. Mainly used for continuous parrying. The attack detection has a long reach (approximately 20m), but the attack itself is very small and doesn't last long. The attack range has been expanded as a result of the attack on 2022/04/06. It is possible to shoot down small enemies or swarms of Tames that spread out one after another. If the timing is right, it can also be used as a fixed point (in the air) attack by repeated attacks, but be careful of the range as the natural PP recovery is stopped. It is also possible to use the Enhancer to aim continuously as it will almost always hit the locked spot. It is possible to remove the enhancer attached to the side while holding hate in front, and it is easy to make an accidental parry.It is not a coordinate attack, so it is necessary to secure a line of sight if it gets caught.It is not as convenient as a technique when aiming from the front.No proper distance. The power and amount of PP collected is high, but it is more reliable when the target moves because of the charge and movement.With the February 2025 update, the motion speed and movement speed have been increased.The charge is almost instantaneous and the movement speed has also increased, making it more reliable.Be careful not to get confused when playing with a configuration that does not include Hu. Derived by holding the direction input (hold input), raise one hand above your head and swing + button for a certain period of time to continue swinging.There is only one proper distance for wire weapon action.After derivation, you can continue swinging by holding down the weapon action (you can release the direction input or move in another direction), but the finish will be activated after a certain period of time. 振り回しは全周攻撃、一定時間（8HIT越え）継続すると高速化。PP回復量は1HITにつき3、高速化で6へ上昇。 最中は歩き並の速度で移動やジャンプができ、HIT間隔が短くてひるみ＆ノックバック付き。 2025年2月アップデートにおけるエフェクト変更により、高速化前後で見た目の変化が分かりやすくなった。 デフォルトだと高速化前は青い軌跡のみ、高速化後は赤い放電と赤い軌跡が追加される。 カラーバリアント武器(迷彩)だと青い軌跡と赤い軌跡がそれぞれCV適用になる。ただし放電は赤で変化なし。 CVの左枠が青担当、右枠が赤担当。 一部のCV2色がほぼ同じ色の武器では放電部分しか変化が無くなるという難点が発生する。 攻撃判定については、リーチは通常攻撃と同程度にあるが上下に薄く高度差に弱い。 相手が坂道の上下に居たり、ちょっと高く飛んでいるだけで当たらなくなる。 1HITごとのPP回復量は控えめだが攻撃速度でカバーしており、かつ範囲が広いため複数体を巻き込んでの大量回収が容易。 動作時間が長いぶんPP自然回復停止の影響も大きいので回復目的ならしっかり当てていきたい。 2022/04/06調整にてPP回復量が上方修正されたことにより、通常攻撃にやや劣る程度という高いPP回復力を獲得した。 ノックバックにより外周付近の小型はある程度追いかけていかないと範囲外へ追い出してしまう。 ジオメトリックラビリンス や ハルファ環境実験区画調査 では場外へ落下させる手段として活用可能。 当て続けた場合の運搬距離がなかなか長いうえ、胸部破壊済のペダス系などはひるみで拘束しながら運搬できるので狙いやすい。 フィニッシュは2種類あり、振り回しの高速化を条件として変化する。判定はどちらも前方のみで、リーチも振り回しと同程度。 高速化前は出が早いが低威力の薙ぎ払い（振り回しに派生させなかった場合と同じ） 高速化後は両手を振りかぶってからの大振り。単発威力がPA並に高く、かつ上下範囲も広いが、出が遅い。 2025年2月アップデートにより高速化後のみ全方向ガードポイントと頑強（打ち上げ吹き飛ばし無効化）が追加された。 振りかぶった時点でガードポイントが発生する。おそらく攻撃判定が消失するまで持続と思われる（要検証） このガードポイントで攻撃を防いだ場合も ストライクバック の発動条件を満たす。 頑強効果により一部レイドボスが使用するガード・回避不能の攻撃に対してもその場に居座ったまま出し切れる。 振り回し中はスーパーアーマーが無い点に注意。 高速化したらフィニッシュでガードできるものの、それを出す直前までは攻撃範囲外からの飛び道具や突進などで容易に潰されるので位置取りや歩きでの回避が重要。 マッシブハンター と併用すればカバー可能。ただしショートサイクルなしでも効果時間の関係で完走3回は厳しい。 空中で発動するとグライド並の速度でゆるやかに降下していく。横移動の速度は変わらず。2段ジャンプ、 ワンモアジャンプ 、ならびに着地後の再ジャンプが可能。 降下速度は スローランディングチャージHu 修得の有無に関わらず一定となる。 攻撃密度や威力は通常攻撃や ヴェインミクスチャー に優るが高度を維持できないので使い分け。 ダイダル系などダウン中の姿勢が横方向に広がるエネミーであれば、弱点に当てつつワンモアジャンプを繰り返して高度を維持できる。 キャンセルポイントは少なめ。 振り回し中はステップでのみ。こまめに横移動していると2回押しのステップ暴発で中断してしまうこともある。 振り回しの終わりからフィニッシュまでの中間、フィニッシュ薙ぎ払いは各種行動でキャンセル可能。 大振りは振りかぶるモーションに入って以降はキャンセル不能。出し切るまでに時間がかかるので、当てられる状況を見極めたい。 ワイヤーの攻撃手段としては高い合計威力を持つが、完走比で威力の約25%を最終段が占めるため、しっかり当てられないと同じ時間で出せるPA3～4発の方が安定してダメージを稼げる。 アヴェンジ 込ならブーツの ジェットインテンシティ を上回るほどに総威力が跳ね上がる。所要時間も同程度。 また、 ストライクバック 実装により能動的に出せる場面も増えた。 狙ってダウンに合わせるのは難しいが、マッシブハンター中に被弾前提で狙うなら完走も容易。ただし精鋭や絶望相手に無理は禁物。 リーチが長いため、エネミーの攻撃範囲外かつ適正距離内で当て続けられる状況も多数存在する。 ダイダル系など挙動が重いタイプは1vs1でも完走可能な行動多数。さすがにブジンを始めとする軽量タイプは他者がヘイトを取っていないと無理がある。 威力配分が平たいため中断しても損は薄く、 It can also be avoided by walking, so its uses are not as limited as Intensity. Even with 3HIT + high-speed pre-finish, the damage will be the same as the pre-input, so depending on the situation, you can finish midway without trying to force the finish. The June 2023 update significantly increased the power of the final stage after speeding up, making the power distribution significantly biased, and at the same time, the power of various PAs was also revised upward, resulting in greater losses due to the interruption. With the February 2025 update, the power of normal attacks and PA in general has been adjusted, and simple DPS is no longer comparable to PA under the same conditions. If you're looking for power, you'll want to use Avenge, of course, but you'll also want to include Vein Mixture T2. Backward distance varies depending on how long the button is pressed. A short press corresponds to one step, and a long press corresponds to two-thirds of a back step. The power and judgment are the same as neutral. The same goes for not having an appropriate distance. In the October 2022 update, the power increased and invincibility time was added. It is approximately 1.25 times more powerful than neutral. The motion for retreat is longer than neutral, so when using it for firepower, you want to keep the retreat distance to a minimum with a short press. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Increased power in weapon action (before: 350 → 380, without: 175 → 185, after: 220 → 270, horizontal: 75/150/600 → 80/200/680) Increased PP recovery amount when there is no direction input (10 → 22) Upward correction of motion speed and movement speed when inputting in the forward direction Added omnidirectional guard points and robustness to the final attack when it is derived in the left and right direction and held down 2023/06/07 Upward adjustment to the final attack power of left and right (long press) (from 350 to 600) 2022/10/05 Added invincibility time and omnidirectional guard points to the attack when it is derived in the forward direction Increased the power of the attack when it is derived from the rear direction (210 → 264) Added invincibility time to the attack when it is derived from the rear direction 2022/04/06 In the weapon action of the wired lance, the attack range has been expanded so that it is easier to hit moving enemies when there is no direction input and when there is a backward direction input. In the weapon action of the wired lance, the power and PP recovery amount when inputting in the left and right directions have been revised upward (Swinging power 70 → 75, PP recovery amount 1 → 3 at low speed, 2 → 6 at high speed) ▲ ▼ Wired Anchor Just Paring Disables attacks from enemies when weapon action is activated. *For wired lance only Image Lv. 1 - - Attacks can be nullified by weapon actions. When successful, a parry sound effect and effect (purple hemispherical barrier) occur, making it easy to understand. When used in conjunction with Advance, continuous paring is also possible except for previous inputs, greatly increasing offensive and defensive options. If you want wire to be your main focus, go for it. Even after confirming that paring has been established, there is still time to change the behavior using Advanced. It supports paring from all directions. ▲ ▼ Crossing Feather Implemented on June 7, 2023 [Active Skill] Fires a powerful slash forward by consuming the gauge accumulated through attacks. *For wired lance only Image Lv. 1 Power 1500 Recast 30 seconds A two-stage attack that starts from a high-speed lunge and swings down with both tips intersecting. It is possible to turn before swinging down. The lunging part corresponds to altitude differences. The width of the judgment is fairly wide, making it easy to involve those around you. Although it is difficult to see because of its high-speed behavior, it charges by firing both wires at the target and then pulling them back. The width of the downward swing is almost as it appears, and the reach (depth) is 2 to 3 steps, making it a wire-like striking weapon with a long range. It's also tall, and if there's a weak point above you, you might be sucked in by that area. After use, a long X-shaped slash mark remains on the floor. A color variant is also applied to this slash mark. It is quite noticeable when shooting with a CV that has a strong brightness difference compared to the terrain or has a fluorescent color. The entire motion is completely invincible. The actions that can accumulate the gauge are all wire attacks except dash attack, dive attack, and photon blast. The amount accumulated in the gauge is multiplied by the rank of the hit enemy. Roughly speaking, small minnows are 1x, large minnows such as Pedas are 2x, and boss enemies are 3x. If you're against a boss, the gauge will be maxed out with about 10 PA hits. 3 sets if you complete the weapon aku horizontal hold. If the boss is alone, the gauge will be maxed out at about the same time as the end of the CT, but if the boss and his companions are involved, the gauge may be filled up before the end of the CT. Power: 300 + 1200, PP recovery amount: 20 + 80 Since all stages are treated as proper distance (x1.2), the actual power is equivalent to 1800 (360 + 1440). The second stage has the highest firepower in a wire attack, second only to Avenge's charged version Hellish Fall. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Upward adjustment of PP recovery amount (10+30→20+80) ▲ ▼ Partisan Attack Extra The number of normal attack stages increases to a maximum of 4 stages. *For partisans only Image Lv. 1 - - After a short charge, a high-power attack that traverses the front is added. Power 470, PP recovery 18. Since there are guard points in the motion, it has the ability to be used aggressively. ▲ ▼ Volgraptor By holding down the weapon action button, you can fire a photon spear that accumulates damage. Photon spears explode after a certain amount of time or after a certain amount of damage is done. * Partisan only Image Lv. 1 Damage accumulation rate 50% Recast 60 seconds Hold down the weapon action to release a photon spear. When a photon spear stabs an enemy and then attacks, it accumulates damage, and when the accumulation reaches the maximum amount or the duration ends, it explodes and deals damage to the enemy. The upper limit of accumulation/explosion damage is base attack power *1.5, and the amount of PP recovery is 100. Explosion damage is fixed damage that is not affected by power multiplier or enemy's defense power. A very special attack whose DPS decreases as the equipment becomes stronger and the multiplier increases. The damage is much lower than the old PSO2, and it is no longer used for damage purposes. The physical down accumulation value is by far the highest, and the raid boss break value reduction is also extremely high. The duration is 10 seconds before the accumulation starts and 15 seconds after it starts. If the photon spear does not start accumulating after being stabbed, no damage will occur and it will disappear. If the part that was pierced before the explosion disappears (destruction, separation, opening/closing), a situation will occur where it will be left behind in a hollow space. Even in this state, if the conditions are met, it will explode and cause damage. It also has a feature in common with the launcher's weapon action. If it explodes and deals damage, there will be a 60 second recast time. This will not occur if the photon spear disappears without exploding or if the explosion does not hit anything. You can check the recast time with the icon displayed at the top of the subpalette. Also, when the recast is completed, a blue ring effect and sound effect will be generated that overlaps the PC. If a weapon action is registered in the palette, when using a weapon action (not only parry but also assault charge), the number of seconds remaining will be displayed over the weapon action icon. It disappears when switching weapon palettes, but is maintained when using a different weapon type in a multi-weapon. However, damage can only be accumulated from attacks that occur while the weapon is in partisan form. ▼ Example Accumulated Install pillbox with Talis weapon action and then switch to Partisan Use light attribute technique to switch before additional Glitter attack occurs, etc. Does not accumulate After firing Megiddo, switch to Partisan before it hits Photon blade derived from Surging Impulse etc. ▼ Adjustment / modification history 2025/02/05 Changed specifications so that PP is recovered when attack hits 2022/06/08 An icon has been added at the top of the sub-palette that allows you to check whether the recast time is in effect. 2021/12/15 The specifications will be changed so that the accumulated amount of down value due to explosion damage will be constant regardless of the damage dealt. *The amount of accumulated down value after adjustment will not decrease compared to before adjustment. The specifications have been changed so that the sound effect will be played at the same time as the effect when the recast is completed. 2021/08/04 Official Adjusted the upper limit of accumulated damage required for explosion. Adjusted so that the effect will be displayed when the recast is completed. ▲ ▼ Volgraptor Short Recast Implemented on June 7, 2023 Reduces the time until Volgraptor can be used again when an attack is successfully nullified. However, there is a limit to the number of times an item can be shortened before it can be reused. *Main class/Partisan only Image Lv. 1 Recast reduction 15 seconds Maximum 3 times Recast time can be shortened by up to 45 seconds each time Volgra Raptor is used. It can be shortened not only by weapon action parries but also by assault charge guard points. It can also be shortened at the guard point of the 4th stage of a normal attack. It can also be shortened with the shield of the EX special ability EX Trishield. Although it contradicts the description, it can be shortened even if Hu Arts Just Paring is successful. Not only that, but it can be shortened even if only Hu Arts Avenge is successful. By using this to speed up Volgraptor's usage cycle, you can increase the frequency of physical knockdowns. This makes it easier for everyone in the room to use the high-firepower long motion attack that is only used when downed. It also provides indirect fire support. ▲ ▼ After Assault Charge PA is activated, press the weapon action button at a specific timing to perform a chargeable thrust attack. *Partisan only Image Power 525 Charge 0.75 seconds If you use a weapon action at a specific timing after using PA, you will perform a thrust while stepping forward. Common properties: From the start of charging to the completion of charging, it is possible to move horizontally in any direction while maintaining altitude using movement input. While charging, you can only change direction very slowly, but when activated, you instantly turn towards the input direction and lock-on target. Can be canceled by step while charging. When activated, there is a guard point in front of you. If Hu Arts Avenge is connected from a successful PA, it will always be in a robust state, even while charging. Non-charged version: Longer travel distance, but less powerful. When targeting something, the movement distance increases by approximately 6m (6 tiles of Trainier), which is about the same distance as the rush part of PB. (Approximately 16m without a target, 22m with a target) If used within a certain distance from the lock-on target, it will stop at the target position. Even if it does not hit due to the altitude difference, it will stop in the same way. This lock-on target is determined not by enemy but by body part. If you lock on to the part in the back, you can move through the part in the front. Charged version: High power, but very short movement and firing range. The vertical width of the judgment is also narrow, and if you are one jump away from the tip of your foot, you won't be able to reach it. Maximum DPS during Partisan action (excluding photon blast) The specific timing is during the so-called "dance" when he swings the spear after the PA. You can activate it quickly by holding down the weapon action button during PA. Some PAs have a timing when they can transition to assault charge during operation. The motion at the start of the action is similar to the weapon action parry, but it does not have the ability to block attacks. The non-charged version, which has a short motion, is great for re-engaging enemies that were separated during an engagement, and the charged version is excellent as a damage source. Since it is not a PA, neither Same Arts nor Another Arts Skip Attack will work. Power distribution is 25% * 1 HIT (131.25) for non-charged, 33.4% * 3 HIT (total 525) for charged ▼ Adjustment / modification history 2025/02/05 Changed specifications so that PP is not consumed when activated (Consumption 10 → 0) Adjusted movement performance Changed specifications so that movement speed changes depending on the distance from the enemy Reduces falling if the enemy is within a certain distance 2022/10/05 Increased power (480→525) 2021/10/13 Increased turning speed when activated. Adjusted to allow movement at the start of charging. The movement distance when not charging has been upwardly revised. ▲ ▼ Assault Charge Avenge If you perform an assault charge with a PA activated by Hunter Arts Avenge, its power will increase. Image Lv. 1 Power 150% Even the non-charged version has high DPS and is a skill that further increases the return of Hu Arts Avenge. Assault Charge itself cannot trigger Avenge. Hunter Arts Just Paring does not apply, so be careful not to get hit while charging. ▲ ▼ Partisan Quick Assault Step Attack, Step Counter, Assault Charge, Photon Blast At a specific timing after activation, press the weapon action button to approach the enemy at high speed and then attack. *Partisan only Image Lv. 1 - - Power 400. Instantly moves above the target and performs a dive attack. After attacking, it stops slightly above the target and becomes airborne. The activation timing is displayed with a purple effect. If you press and hold the input from a corresponding action other than Photon Blast, the parry will explode, so you need to input it at the right time. If you want to connect from Photon Blast, just hold down. The hit detection is quite large and wide both above and below. There are only a limited number of situations where you can miss, and you can expect to get involved. Always invincible during operation. It can be activated from the step counter without breaking the invincibility state. Slams the hit enemy to the ground, causing them to fall. If it's an enemy on the ground, it won't even float away. It is a very convenient action that allows you to move, attack, and gain altitude in one move, and is comparable to PA in terms of DPS. Although it is possible to use safe attacks using invincibility time, it is low risk and low return, so I would like to prioritize Avenge in situations where I can aim for it. If you try to make a delayed parry after the corresponding action is activated, it tends to result in a quick assault. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2025/02/05 Changed specifications so that PP is not consumed when activated (Consumption 10 → 0) 2023/01/25 Fixed a bug where it could not be canceled by weapon action if activated while Volgrapter was being recast.

