
=== [Techter Class Skills & Data] ===
=== REFRESH NODE: 2026-06-12 04:20:37 UTC ===
Tector HTML ConvertTime 0.373 sec. Class (Add-on Skill) Hunter (Hu) Fighter (Fi) Ranger (Ra) Gunner (Gu) Force (Fo) Tector (Te) Braver (Br) Bouncer (Bo) Waker (Wa) Slayer (Sl) EX Style Adrus Blitz Celeste ▼ Open Table of Contents Table of Contents Overview Class Skill List Shifta Deband Shifter/Deband Party Share Shifter/Deband Party Share Shifter/Deband Extend Long Range Shifter/Deband Shifter Effect Advantage Shifter Effect Amplify Deband PP Recovery Up Deband Resist Bad Condition Reverse Bounty Weak Element Amplify Awake Ale Over Emphasis Foie Brand Verta Blot Sondeclad Zangale Glanz Glitter Megidosphere Long Range Advantage Te Unite Technique Te U Technique Gauge Amplify Te Wond Lovers Wond Lovers Reinforce Won Attack Extra Won Guard Reflection Won Arts Skip Attack Wondo Technique Skip Beat Wondo Element Change Wondo Quick Element Change Wondo Element Revoke Wondo Element Pursuit Wondo Parry Counter Wondo Parry Counter Advance Talis Bloom After PP Gain Tricky Capacitor Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Float Torchka Multilock Talis Sign Marking Talis Bloom Revoke Rester Field Te Tector Extra Field Slow Landing Charge Te Class Skills Scheduled to be Implemented in the Future Tector's Subclass Tector's EX Style Tector as a Subclass Comments Overview The official abbreviation is Te (Te chter). It can be equipped with Wand (PA), which allows you to fight at close range by combining blows and techniques, and Tallis (PA), which can change the performance of your techniques and eliminate your quirk, while aiming to lower your attributes from a distance. A class that is good at supporting, assisting, and recovering allies. By using the active class skill ``Shifter Deband'', you can increase the damage dealt and decrease the damage received by yourself and surrounding characters. If you have learned the passive class skill "Restafield Te", the recovery effect when using Restasign will be extended to those around you. Force also has a skill with almost the same name, but Tector's version has an additional effect that increases the amount of recovery. By using the active class skill "Over Emphasis", it is possible to "immediately fully recover" HP and PP and "increase the PP limit" for party members only. The ability to recover more times than the number of Resta you have is especially useful in quests where the number of possessions is limited. In addition, the class skill "Tector Extra Field", which was added in the adjustment in October 2024, has a powerful attack support ability, and when combined with Shifter and Deband, it can be expected to increase DPS by over 10%, as well as increase the Photon Blast Gauge. This established the position of firepower buff personnel next to the Ranger's Weak Bullet. Regarding Tector's own attack, first of all, in terms of skills, he has multiple class skills that greatly increase the photon blast gauge. The special weapon, the Wondo, generates a follow-up attack called a Hogeki Explosion during various attacks, and can accumulate both physical and attribute down values ​​at the same time. In addition, since the number of legal explosions is equal to the number of enemies involved, it can exert high firepower in certain situations such as during PSE bursts in a narrow area. There are only two combo patterns used in normal situations, making it easy to understand and operate. (1 technique → normally 2 times, or PA 2 times → usually 2 times) The third stage usually has tracking performance and has high situational response ability, so there is little DPS fluctuation. In contrast to counter-type classes, it can be recommended for those who want to attack casually with only a few adjustments. For the time being, Talis can also be equipped as a main class weapon, and it is also possible to adopt a safe fighting style from a distance while focusing on reducing attributes. However, due to class skills, it has inferior firepower compared to Force. After the adjustment in October 2024, Tector uses Wand Element Pursuit and Photon Blast repeatedly, and has become a class where the key is how to continue activating Tector Extra Field, so basically all you have to do is hold the wand. Tector's subclass Tector's EX style Tector as a subclass Comments ▲ ▼ List of class skills "Yellow background color" is a skill added on October 2, 2024 Shifter/Deband Weak Element Amplify Awake Ale Over Emphasis Resterfield Te Slow Landing Charge Te Long Range Advantage Te Unite Technique Te Foie Brand Vertablot Sondeclad Wand Quick Element Change U Technique Gauge Amplify Te Zangale Glanz Glitter Megidosphere Shifta/Deband Party Share Shifter Effect Advantage Shifter Effect Amplify Deband PP Recovery Up Deband Resist Bad Condition Reverse Bounty Shifter/Deband Extend Long Range Shifter/Deband Techter Extra Field Won Lovers Wondo Attack Extra Wand Element Change Wondo Parry Counter Talis Bloom After PP Gain Talis Bloom Revoke Won Lovers Reinforce Won Guard Reflection Won Element Revoke Won Do Parry Counter Advance Tricky Capacitor Float Torchica Multilock Wand Arts Skip Attack Wand Technique Skip Beat Won Element Pursuit Talis Sign Marking Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Red text is a skill exclusive to the main class. Skill points can only be earned when clearing Trainier for the first time, and can be used by all classes. The current maximum skill point is 47. (=Aerio 20SP + Ritem 10SP + Kuvaris 10SP + Steer 7SP) ▼ Adjustment/Revision History 2024/10/02 Added class skill "Wand Quick Element Change" Added class skill "Tector Extra Field" 2023/06/07 Update Added class skill "Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish" Added class skill "Wand Technique Skip Beat" 2022/12/07 Update Added class skill "Long Range Shifter Deband" Added class skill "U Technique Gauge Amplify Te" Added class skill "Wand Element Pursuit" Added class skill "Talis Sign Marking" Added class skill "Talis Sign Marking" 2022/06/08 Added class skill "Foie Brand" Added class skill "Wand Attack Extra" Added class skill "Wand Arts Skip Attack" Added class skill "Talis Bloom After PP Gain" Added class skill "Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplify" 2021/12/15 Added class skill "Over Emphasis" Added class skill "Wond Lover's Reinforce" Added class skill "Zangale" Added class skill "Glantz Glitter" Added class skill "Megido Sphere" 2022/04/06 Added class skill "Unite Technique Te" ▲ ▼ Shifter Devand [Active Skill] For a certain period of time, the damage dealt to enemies by you and surrounding characters increases, and the damage received decreases. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Power 105% Damage taken 90% Effect time 60 seconds Maximum effect time 60 seconds Recast 15 seconds As stated in the description, it gives a buff effect that increases damage dealt and reduces damage taken. Resources such as PP are not required. There is no preparatory action, and the effect is activated immediately. The effect area remains for approximately 5 seconds after use. If you touch it before it disappears, you can get the effect. The upper and lower hit detection is thicker than it appears, and can be reached at altitudes equivalent to a normal double jump. If the player becomes incapacitated, the effect of Shifta Deband will disappear. This class skill is unusual in "NGS" in that the "cool time starts immediately after the effect is activated (during the effect duration)", making it one of the few skills that can impart a buff effect that can be maintained at all times. As a side note, class skills other than these generally have a ``cool time that starts after the effect ends'', and require ``effect time + cool time'' before they can be used again. In the ``Phantasy Star'' series works before ``NGS'', ``Shifter'', which increases attack power, and ``Deband'', which increases defense power, appeared as techniques. In this work, it is not a skill to memorize "shifter" and "deband" as techniques, It is implemented as an active skill exclusive to Techter. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Shortened the waiting time at the start of the quest (30 seconds → 10 seconds) 2021/12/15 Changed the specifications so that a sound effect is played when a character receives an effect. (After the field is generated, the buff sound will be heard by the person who generated the field when a player enters later.) 2021/6/9 (Official service start) Power: 110% → 105% (110% is the power value in CBT) ▲ ▼ Shifta Deband Party Share When Shifta Deband is activated, it also applies the effect to characters in the same party who are far away. *For main class only Image Lv. 1 - - The effect will be applied no matter how far apart you are in the same room. When playing while moving with Photon Dash or Photon Glide, there are few opportunities for players to gather together and reapply Shifter/Deband. If you're going to play in a party, learning this will make you more comfortable. ▲ ▼ Shifter Deband Extend Extends the effect time of Shifter Deband. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 180 seconds Maximum effect time 180 seconds The effect time is tripled from 60 seconds to 180 seconds. ▲ ▼ Long Range Shifter Deband [Active Skill] Activate Shifter Deband in front of you. The time until reuse is possible is shared with normal shifter debanding. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 - - A skill that changes the activation point of Shifter Deband from the user's feet to the target. If viewed from a normal perspective, it will be activated around the target (locked on). If you are looking over your shoulder, it will be activated from the aiming point. If there is nothing nearby that can be targeted, it will be activated from a point 10m in front of the user (same behavior as various coordinate attacks).Even if activated when the user is not within the range, Shifta Deband will have an effect on the user himself. If you have learned Party Share, it will also be effective on your party members. Once learned, a long-range version of the icon will be displayed in addition to the normal shifter/deband, and you will be able to set it in the sub-palette. It is not a skill that expands the functions of the existing skills Shifter and Deband, but a different skill that shares the acquisition status of recast, performance, and enhanced skills. Be sure to check carefully when setting it on the pallet. Although it is possible to use them differently, there is little benefit considering the lack of subpalette frames. If you are using the melee weapon Wand, there are almost no situations where you will have trouble using just the regular version, and if you are using the long range weapon Talis, you will probably consider using the long range version. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Shortened the waiting time at the start of the quest (30 seconds → 10 seconds) ▲ ▼ Added an effect to Shifter Effect Advantage Shifter Deband that increases the damage dealt to downed enemies. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Power 105% This skill is activated even when special down. ▲ ▼ Shifter Effect Amplify Adds an effect to Shifter Deband that increases the down value given to enemies. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Physical down value increase 105% Attribute down value increase 105% ▲ ▼ Deband PP recovery up Adds the effect of increasing the natural recovery amount of PP to Shifter Deband. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 PP recovery rate 120% ▲ ▼ Deband Resist Bad Condition Adds an effect to Shifter Deband that makes it difficult to get status abnormalities. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Status abnormality accumulation rate 85% It is useful when using equipment that has disadvantages against status abnormality resistance, or in quests where you are susceptible to status abnormalities that limit your actions such as freezing or panic. ▲ ▼ Reverse Bounty Gives the revived ally the effect of Shifta Deband. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 - - In battles where allies are likely to be unable to fight, by learning this you will not have to worry about cooldown time or position. Unlike Shifter Deband, there is no cooldown on the first use. Therefore, in some quests such as Battle Deer: Purple, it can be used to apply a supplementary effect immediately after the start. (You need to become incapacitated.) It seems to be a glitch, but it can be used by subclasses as well. ▲ ▼ Weak Element Amplify When attacking with an enemy's weak attribute, the amount accumulated in the Photon Blast Gauge increases. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PB gauge increase amount Main 110% 112% 113% 114% 115% 116% 117% 118% 119% 120% Sub 105% 107% 108% 109% 110% 111% 112% 113% 114% 115% Image Lv. 11 12 13 14 15 PB gauge increase amount Main 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% - - - - - Sub 116% 117% 118% 119% 120% - - - - - There is a difference in the effect when applied to the main class and when applied to the subclass. (Difference of 5-10%) Due to the condition of "weakness attribute", hitting and shooting without attributes will not be effective unless you use a weapon with an attribute that matches the enemy's weakness attribute. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Upwards the value of PB gauge increase for skill level 14 and below when used in subclasses 2022/06/08 Added Lv.11 to 15 ▲ ▼ Awake Ale When the boss enemy is nearby, the amount of photon blast gauge accumulated increases. Image Lv. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PB gauge increase amount Main 110% 113% 116% 118% 120% 121% 122% 123% 124% 125% Sub 102% 104% 106% 108% 110% 112% 114% 116% 118% 120% Increases both accumulation over time and attack accumulation. There is a difference in the effect when applied to the main class and when applied to the subclass. (5-10% difference) The effective range is surprisingly wide at about 40m. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/06/07 Upwardly revised the value of PB gauge increase for skill level 9 and below when used in subclasses 2022/06/08 Added Lv.6 to 10 2022/04/06 Expanded effective range (approx. 11-18m → approx. 40m) ▲ ▼ Over Emphasis [Active Skill] When activated, recovers HP and PP of characters in the same party as you, and increases maximum PP for a certain period of time. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Effect time 30 seconds Recast 150 seconds Maximum stock 2 times Increased PP +50 Full recovery effect is applied the moment it is activated. Like Shifta Deband and Resterfield Te, it has no motion and no cooldown. Unlike the Force class skill "PP Convert", its biggest feature is that it can instantly recover PP without taking any action to recover PP momentarily. Also, there are no restrictions on the state at the time of activation, and it will be activated immediately upon input as long as it is not inoperable or incapable of combat, even during PA operation, photon blast operation, being hit by a bullet, or down. If you use it to rush when downed, you can reduce normal attacks and increase PA with PP +50, greatly contributing to improving DPS for yourself and your party members. For HP recovery, each Resta Sign and Reverser Sign is often sufficient, so it is a bit of a waste to use them for this purpose during normal party play. In high-difficulty situations such as permanent high-difficulty quests and purple, you may run out of Resta at all, so it is extremely reliable in such situations. In addition, the full HP recovery effect shines even in environments where Resta Sign is restricted, such as Geometric Labyrinth. Previously, the cooldown time was extremely long, and you could only activate it once or twice in one quest, but after the adjustment, the cooldown time has been significantly shortened. It's now easier to use. If you are in a situation where the stock of this skill is overflowing, such as when playing solo, you can also use it to save Resta Sign. After using the skill, recasting will be stopped for 30 seconds while the PP+50 effect is in effect. If there are multiple Techtors in the same party and another Over Emphasis is activated during the effect, the effect duration will be overwritten by the one activated later. The effect ends when the previously activated one is overwritten and the cooldown period begins. When operating Talis on the main Te, it can also be used as a quick charger. If the PP conversion is being recast or the sub is other than Fo. With the implementation of Long Range Advantage, the importance of Tallis has increased in the main Te, but compared to the main Fo, there is a part where the PP efficiency is inferior due to the lack of Tricky Capacitor Quick Recharge. This will be used to fill that gap. See also the video on Rappy.commu. Skill Activation (C)SEGA Skill Activation (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Shortened recast time (300 seconds → 150 seconds) 2022/02/09 Fixed a bug where Tector's class skill ``Over Emphasis'' would stop recasting his own ``Over Emphasis'' during the effect period of ``Over Emphasis'' used by a player other than himself. *In line with this modification, the specifications will be changed so that when you receive the effect of "Over Emphasis" used by another player, the effect time of "Over Emphasis" used by you will end immediately and recasting will begin. Official website ▲ ▼ Foiebrand Flame attribute technique: Carve a mark of flame by hitting the enemy multiple times. If you hit it with a technique of the same attribute, the engraving will detonate, an additional attack will occur, and PP will be recovered. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The number of techniques required to apply the stamp and detonate varies depending on the type of technique and whether or not there is a charge. See also fire element technique. In addition to techniques, it can be engraved with Fomergion, and can be imprinted and detonated with the Jet Boots Element Set. Elemental Bullet cannot do either. ▼ Accumulated value required for application and detonation (verification required) The accumulated value of each action is 2.7 for Foie (fireball 2.4 + vortex 0.1 × 3 hits), Charge Foie 3.8, Gifoie 2.7 (0.9 × 3 hits), Charge Gifoie 6 (2 × 3 hits), and Jet Boots pursuit 2.4. A stamp is given when the cumulative accumulated value is 9 or more, and it detonates when it is 14.5 or more. Since there is a maximum difference of 5.5 from the time of imposition to detonation, the detonation may not occur with the action immediately after the imprint is applied. The follow-up power when detonated is 80. PP recovery amount is 10. The power and PP recovery amount do not change depending on the type of technique or whether or not it is charged. Foie Brand (C)SEGA ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Power has been upwardly revised (55→80) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Vertablot By applying an uncharged ice attribute technique to an enemy, it carves an ice emblem that is strengthened up to two levels depending on the number of times. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the emblem will detonate and deal additional damage according to the level of reinforcement. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you continue to use uncharged ice-based techniques, ice emblems will be carved on the enemy. (Upper limit is 2 levels) If you hit any charged ice attribute technique while the ice emblem is visible, the emblem will be consumed and a follow-up attack will occur. The number of hits required to carve a crest is 4 hits for the first stage and 7 hits for the second stage. The emblem will disappear automatically after about 15 seconds after being carved. Even if you hit a charge attack with no emblem (1st to 3rd stage), the number of stages will not be reset. The pursuit power is 200 in the first stage and 400 in the second stage. It is not affected by the detonation technique, and whether it is detonated with Bata or Gi Bata, the power will be the same if it is at the same stage. If you destroy parts (including the enhancer) using a detonation technique, the emblem will be reset without an explosion. The emblem detonation itself does not have a hit detection, but is it treated as a follow-up attack that is triggered at a time difference? It seems that if you apply the detonation technique as described above and at the same time cause part destruction or the part is hidden, a phenomenon will occur where no damage will be done even if the emblem detonation is activated. In this case, since the detonation itself has occurred, the emblem will be reset. Note that ice-attribute techniques changed by Wondo's ice-attribute attack explosion or Talis' PA are not included in this count. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. If you set the particle quality in the graphic settings to 2 or higher, the emblem will become white and clearly visible. (PC version only?) ▼ Adjustment/fix history 2021/08/04 Fixed a bug where the ice attribute technique used by NPCs affected the player's bartablot. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Sondeclad By hitting an enemy with an uncharged lightning attribute technique a certain number of times, you become charged. Furthermore, if you use a charged technique with the same attribute, the charge will be removed and that technique will be strengthened. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. If you keep hitting the non-charged version, a ring-shaped effect will appear around the player. If you activate any lightning charge technique in this state, the final stage of continuous damage will be strengthened. The number of hits required for the ring effect to appear is 10. If you can attack multiple enemies at the same time, the number of times required will decrease. Even if you use a charge technique in between, the count will not be reset. Note that this count does not include Wand's lightning attack explosion or Talis's PA-induced lightning attribute techniques. Pursuit attacks with Elemental Bullet or Jet Boots Element Set are counted. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Zangair By applying an uncharged wind attribute technique to an enemy, a wind ring is attached. If you hit it with a charged technique of the same attribute, the wind ring will expand and an additional attack will occur. Attacks by Wind Ring change depending on the technique used. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Techniques/Wind Attributes. A type of skill like Virtablot that attaches a marker to an enemy without charging and detonates it with a charge. Attachment is completed with just one non-charge hit. No further steps will be taken. Zangale (C)SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Glanz Glitter By applying light attribute technique to an enemy multiple times, a ring of light will develop around you for a certain period of time. During deployment, if you use a technique with the same attribute, an additional attack will occur depending on the technique. If you deploy the ring of light again while it is being deployed, the effect will not overlap, and instead, the effect time of the ring of light that is currently being deployed will be reset. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The halo lasts for 10 seconds. Additional attacks vary depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Light Attribute. If it is a light attribute technique, it can be deployed and maintained regardless of whether it is charged or uncharged, and additional attacks do not consume dedicated resources, so after deploying the light ring, you can fight without worrying about its operation. The deployment technique by Talis PA cannot deploy and maintain the ring of light, and no additional attacks will occur. Pursuit with the Jet Boots Element Set allows you to deploy and maintain a light ring. The number of hits required for deployment and maintenance is not simply the number of hits, but a cumulative value set for each technique's attack judgment is counted each time it hits, and when it reaches a certain level, it will be deployed and maintained, which seems to be similar to physical down/attribute down. For example, Granz can deploy the ring of light in 4 hits with either charged (4 attacks) or non-charged (1 attack), but if he continues to hit the charged version only for the first hit, he can finally deploy it on the 19th hit. On the other hand, if Gi Grants (charged and non-charged attack twice) hits many enemies at once, it can be deployed in one attack. The hit count during the development of the ring of light is maintained even after it disappears. For example, if you hit the non-charged version of Grunts three times during deployment and then disappear, you can deploy it again just by hitting the non-charged version of Grunts one more time. Granz Glitter (C) SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Megidosphere By applying an uncharged dark attribute technique to an enemy, you can stock up to 3 dark beads around yourself. Furthermore, when you use a charged technique of the same attribute, all Dark Beads are consumed, and the technique is strengthened according to the number consumed. Image Lv. 1 - - Common skill of Force, Tector, and Bouncer. The Dark Bead lasts approximately 20 seconds. Additional attacks differ depending on the technique, so refer to Technique/Dark Attribute. The more dark beads you consume at once, the more effective each one becomes. In addition to the non-charged version of the technique, you can also stock Dark Beads with Elemental Bullet and Jet Boots Element Set, but you cannot stock them with Talis Deployment Technique. Also, if you hit multiple enemies with Megiddo, you can stock up to 3 at once. It is difficult to say that stocking up Dark Beads one by one using the non-charged version technique is efficient in terms of PP, so be aware of stocking up using the methods described above. Megido Sphere (C) SEGA Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Long Range Advantage Te Implemented on October 11, 2023 Increases damage dealt by PA and techniques to boss enemies that are not aiming at itself. *Main class/Ranger, Gunner, Force, Tector (Talis), Braver (Bullet Bow) Weapon only Image Lv. 1 Power 115% This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). A skill added to adjust the balance when using long-range weapons in multiplayer. As stated in the description, only PA and techniques are covered, and class skills, normal attacks, counters, etc. are not covered. Compound techniques with the name "technique" are class skills and are therefore not eligible, but Talis' conversion techniques are. You can tell whether an enemy is targeting you by looking at whether or not there is an eye symbol next to the enemy's name. Due to its nature, it goes well with the Ranger's class skill Obscure Form, which makes it difficult to be targeted. Basically, it targets ranged and legal weapons, but Waker and Slayer cannot be learned, and Tector's Wand is excluded, so be careful. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Unite Technique Te Complex Attribute Technique becomes available. Complex attribute techniques are activated by accumulating a complex attribute technique gauge through attacks and consuming the accumulated gauge. Can be stocked up to 2 times. *Main Class/Force, Techter Weapon Only Image Lv. 1 Fomergion Power 2600 Verlanzion Power 2530 Zandion Power 2295 This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). If you do not acquire this skill, you will not be able to use complex attribute techniques. See "Techniques/Complex Attributes" for information on each complex attribute technique. Complex attribute techniques can be activated by consuming the complex attribute technique gauge instead of PP. The same gauge can be stocked for up to 2 shots. Differences between Force version and Tector version The Force version is called "Unite Technique Fo" and the Tector version is called "Unite Technique Te". There is no performance difference between the two skills. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Power has been revised upward Phomelgion: 2070→2600 Verlanzion: 2024→2530 Zandion: 1836→2295 2023/08/02 Power has been revised upward Phomelgion: 1800→2070 Barlanzion: 1760→2024 Zandion: 1600→1836 Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ U Technique Gauge Amplify Te When attacking an enemy with a weak attribute technique or a legal attack explosion, the gauge accumulation amount of a composite attribute technique increases. *For Force and Tector weapons only Image Lv. 1 2 3 Gauge accumulation rate Main 120% 135% 150% Sub 110% 120% 130% Force and Tector exist in both skill trees, but by learning both, the multi-attribute technique gauge accumulation increase effect will be applied overlappingly. Therefore, by making the class structure a combination of Fo/Te, complex attribute techniques can be used quite often. Differences between Force version and Tector version There is no performance difference between the two skills. The force version is called "U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo" and the techer version is called "U Technique Gauge Amplify Te." Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Wondravers [Active Skill] Adds the effect of repelling enemy attacks to normal attacks for a certain period of time, preventing them from being launched or blown away. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 Effect time: 30 seconds Recast: 90 seconds During the effect time, you will be in a robust state, and a guard point will be given at the beginning of the wand's normal attack. Wand Guard Reflection can also be activated from this guard point. The robust effect is only applied during the normal attack motion, so it will cause you to flinch while using PA or techniques. Be careful of this point, as it cannot be used to prevent flinching due to continuous attacks during PSE burst. By learning Wondrabber's Reinforce, you will be able to use it as a means of attacking the enemy, even if it is in the air. However, even if there are guard points, there is no damage reduction effect, so be careful. ▲ ▼ Wondravers Reinforce Wondravers During Wondravers, the speed and power of normal attacks increases. *Main class/Won only Image Lv. 1 - - The target normal attacks are neutral normal attacks, step attacks, and step counters. According to a survey by volunteers, the increase in attack speed is about 8% to 10%. Although it is not mentioned in the description, the effect ``during the effect period, the attack will be performed by charging towards the target and then attacking'' will also be added. Its behavior is similar to a slightly shorter version of an ``accelerator drive'' or ``thrust drive,'' and it also responds well to vertical movement. This dramatically increases the ability to track the target while the skill is in effect. Of course in the air, Rushes toward the target while swinging the wand. The speed is quite high, but due to the structure of ``goes straight towards the target coordinates at the time of inputting the attack operation, and the attack motion begins after the movement ends'', it is not uncommon for it to miss attacks on enemies that are moving at high speed. The approach movement is very similar to the katana during ``Brave Combat'' and ``Brave Combat Close Range'', but the usability differs greatly due to the difference in motion speed and the nature of the guard point. Not only does the power of normal attacks increase significantly, but the DPS of all combos including normal attacks increases by speeding up the motion by about 10%. The power of normal attacks increases from 100/105/160 to 130/140/210 for the first to third hits, and the power of the fourth EX attack increases from 540 (100 + 440) to 650 (120 + 530). Won combos have a wide range of benefits because they include normal attacks, such as "PA x 2 due to the effect of Wand Arts Skip Attack → 3rd hit normally → 4th hit due to Won Attack Extra". However, since the skill effect only targets the normal attack part, combos that include PA and techniques excluding the first half of wave hit x 2 → normal attack 3 → normal attack 4 are inferior to normal attacks 1 to 4 in terms of damage due to the proportion of normal attacks in the overall frame. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Increased power for 1st to 4th hits of normal attacks Relaxed step cancel timing Relaxed weapon action cancel timing Relaxed fall timing. Adjusted to avoid getting too close to the enemy when attacking. When attacking on the ground, if the target's altitude is more than a certain distance away, the specifications will be changed so that it approaches the air. The power has been adjusted upward for step attacks and step counters The power has been adjusted upward for wand parry counters When attacking on the ground, if the target's altitude is more than a certain distance away, the specifications have been changed so that it approaches the air. ▲ ▼ Won Attack Extra The number of normal attack stages of the wand increases to a maximum of 4 stages. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - A high-power 2-hit attack is added as the 4th stage of the normal attack. There is a full circumference guard while the wand is floating, and a forward guard while swinging down. It is possible to attack while guarding due to the long guard point, but since the normal attack motion of the wand is basically slow, there is a risk of being crushed by a bullet before it can be derived to the 4th stage. Also, there is a gap in the guard point of the 4th stage itself when it transitions from all-around guard to forward guard, and after swinging down, the guard judgment disappears and there is a gap where it is impossible to cancel, so it is not possible to be safe just by entering the motion of the 4th stage. You need to be especially careful when you are not using Wondrubbers. A launch effect is included on the 1st hit that makes the wand float. The power has been strengthened with the 2024/10/02 update, and in particular, the accumulating performance of each gauge has been dramatically improved due to the upward revision of the law attack explosion attached to the second stage. From then on, how to incorporate this attack quickly and frequently became an important tactical issue in wand operations. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Upwardly revised power Relaxed step cancel timing Relaxed weapon action cancel timing Upward revised each accumulation value of law attack explosion that occurs on second hit (changed to equivalent to law explosion "large") 2022/10/05 Extended omnidirectional guard points on 4th hit 2022/06/08 Implemented as a new skill ▲ ▼ When an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action such as Wand Guard Reflection, a legal attack explosion occurs. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - Hogeki explosion occurs at the locked location. As it says, ``weapon actions, etc.'', it is activated not only by the wand's weapon action (wondo parry), but also by all guard points that can be used in wand form. Example: The 4th stage of the normal attack of the non-charged version of Guy Foie and Wondo, the shield of Wondlovers and the EX special ability EX Try Shield, etc. Even if a multi-weapon incorporates a wand, it will not activate if it is in a form other than a wand. Example: When using a multi-weapon of Wondo + Tallis, it will not apply even if you just guard with the non-charged version of Gui Foie in Talis form. ▼ Adjustment / modification history 2024/10/02 Relaxed launch angle ▲ ▼ Wand Arts Skip Attack The normal attack after using Photon Arts in succession changes to the third attack. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - A skill that allows you to enter a normal attack after using PA twice in a row, skipping the 1st and 2nd hits of the normal attack and allowing the 3rd normal attack to appear. Wand technique Skip Beat (normal attack after technique) ⇒ Rapid Smash x2 ⇒ Pursuit accumulates with normal attacks 4 and 5. The only PAs that are eligible are Wondo PAs. PA and techniques of other weapon types are not included in the count. If you use a wond, you can connect it by using it twice, whether it's the same PA or different PAs. There is no problem even if you use PA more than 3 times. Applies if the last two PAs used meet the conditions. Conditions for continuous use of PA: After the first PA, the second use must be used within the combo reception time (the time within which you can advance the number of attack stages of a normal attack). Similarly, subsequent normal attack inputs must be input within the combo reception time after the second PA. Do not allow activities other than PAs to occur between PAs. No-motion active skills such as Resta Sign, Shifta Deband, and Over Emphasis cannot be used. ▲ ▼ Wand Technique Skip Beat Implemented on June 7, 2023 The normal attack after activating the technique changes into a powerful attack that is treated as a third hit. *Wand-only Image Lv. 1 - - By inputting a normal attack immediately after using a technique in wand form, a powerful normal attack that is treated as a third hit will be activated. Moves at high speed to engage the enemy and fires two consecutive attacks while rotating from bottom to top. The moving part is compatible with altitude differences. The movement distance is 4 steps (18m) with a target, 3 steps (13.5m) without a target.Go straight to the target. It is treated as the 3rd hit, so if you input a normal attack in succession, the 4th hit will be activated. Since it is treated as a normal attack, the power increase and motion acceleration of Reinforce will be applied. The third attack activated by this skill is accompanied by guard points all around. (The guard point that comes with the normal third hit is limited to the front) Next, normal attack 4 also has a guard judgment, so if you use it consecutively, you can press the guard judgment and create a combo. However, be careful as it seems that the guard judgment is interrupted for a moment between skip beat and normal 4, and it is inserted into long-term attack judgment such as irradiation beam. Power is 80 x 2 hits. PP recovery amount is 10+10. Combined with the law explosion, the power becomes (80+60) x 2 = 280. With the update, the specifications have been changed so that it can be activated even from non-charged techniques. It is now possible to perform high-speed approaches in succession that can handle height differences, and it is now able to demonstrate a level of sticking performance close to that of Twin Daggers. If you have acquired Quick Element Change, you will be able to add attributes even without charging, so you can quickly cover the attribute discard and retreat when activating Pursuit with non-charging attributes and high-speed approach with all-around GP, and if you connect it to normal 4, it will also be effective for recovering the gauge, making the contribution of Pursuit extremely high. If you try to activate Technique → Skip Beat immediately after using a jump, Resta sign, or active skill, it may normally become 1. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Specifications changed so that it can be activated even from uncharged techniques Adjusted movement performance ▲ ▼ Wand Element Change When using a charging technique, the legal attack explosion changes to the same attribute. *For wand only Image Lv. 1 - - You can change the attribute of the law attack explosion with the charge technique, and an effect of the color corresponding to the attribute will appear at the tip of the wand. Fire attribute is red, Ice attribute is light blue, Lightning attribute is bright purple, Wind attribute is green, Light attribute is white, Dark attribute is dark purple. The assigned attributes are not discarded by changing weapons. In addition to disappearing due to section/region movement or block movement, they may also disappear due to the entrance and exit of Trainier etc. (unverified). About the down value given by Hogeki Explosion. When an attribute is given by this skill, or when a weapon itself has an attribute, a law attack explosion using a wand will give the attribute down value of the applicable attribute. A legal attack explosion with a wand that does not have any attributes and is not given by this skill will give a physical down value. For more information on down values, see Status Abnormalities/Resistance. This is a wand-only skill, so if you have multiple weapons, you need to use the charge technique while in wand mode. Since it is not affected by Bouncer's class skill "Jet Boots Element Set", it is possible to do tricks such as adding ice attributes to the wand and fire attributes to jet boots. In ``NGS,'' there are fewer opportunities to obtain weapons with attributes, so being able to change the attributes of the legal attack explosion according to the enemy's weak attributes is a major advantage over the old ``PSO2.'' Unlike the effect of the skill ring of the same name that appeared in the old PSO2, the attributes of the wand itself do not change. ▲ ▼ Wand Quick Element Change Implemented on October 2, 2024 Even when using techniques that are not charged, Law attack explosions caused by Wand Element Change will now change to the same attribute. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - This skill can be learned without consuming skill points (SP). Attributes can be added even with non-charge techniques. Although it is quite simple in writing, this skill brings immeasurable benefits to Wondo. After discarding an attribute using a path during close combat, the chances of openings caused by technique charges are drastically reduced, making it possible to experience high-speed combat with a more comfortable experience. It becomes possible to repeatedly hit Skip Beat at high speed, dramatically increasing enemy contact performance, and allows you to repeatedly hit Skip Beat → Normally 4 with high firepower and high pursuit gauge accumulation. Although it is short compared to the huge charge gap, be aware that you are still defenseless during the technique activation motion. ▲ ▼ Wand Element Revoke By holding down the weapon action button, you can restore the attributes of the law attack explosion that were changed by Wand Element Change. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - A prerequisite skill for Wondo Elemental Pursuit, which boasts the highest single firepower of any Wondo except PB. Even if you think about it without the pursuit, there is an aspect of being able to switch between accumulating attribute down values ​​or physical down values. However, it is more important to increase damage by adding weak attributes, so there is little benefit on its own. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/12/07 Fixed a bug where, under certain conditions, the effect of returning attributes would be activated even if the button was not held down. ▲ ▼ Won Element Pursuit After hitting an enemy with a legal explosion a certain number of times, by activating Won Element Revoke, an additional attack will occur. When this skill cannot be activated, Wand Element Revoke cannot be used either. *For Wand only Image Lv. 1 Power 1000 In exchange for discarding the attributes imparted by "Wand Element Change", it moves at high speed to a position slightly above the lock point and unleashes a powerful area attack. Once learned, an icon will be displayed on the right side of the weapon palette. By hitting Hogeki Explosion, the bright area of ​​the icon will increase, and when the icon is all bright, it can be used. A commonly known game technique. Since the activation condition is to discard attributes, it cannot be used even if the gauge is full unless attributes are added. The amount the gauge increases depends on the type of legal attack explosion. Setting the gauge Max to 100, small is 1, medium is 2, and large is 6. For bosses, the amount of gauge accumulated is tripled. See Wand/Action/PA for the types of legal explosions that accompany each attack. The maximum charging distance when activated is approximately 10m. After the explosion, it retreats about 4m. With front input, the backward distance can be kept to about 2.5m. If you input left or right input, it will jump diagonally backwards (if the front is 12 o'clock on the clock face, input on the left will be at 7 o'clock, input on the right will be at 5 o'clock).If the distance when activated is too close, it may sink into the target and change the direction of retreat. The attack range is approximately 17m radius. Cut-out version Spread Feather Same level as the expansion technique. A high-firepower, wide-range skill with a short motion of 1.4 seconds including parry, contact with enemy at altitude, and recovery of PP. Power 1000, PP recovery 50. If it is a weak attribute, the correction will be 1.2 times. Also, since PP natural recovery does not stop during the motion, the remaining PP amount at the end of the attack will be slightly larger than +50. Attribute down value 420. It has a toppling effect (small-scale launch) and can disrupt the actions of small enemies all at once. Engage the enemy while maintaining the number of double jumps. ``If the weapon action is held down after parrying, it will transition to pursuit after the parry motion is completed.'' Due to the structure, there is a defenseless time between parry and pursuit activation. If you successfully nullify the enemy's attack when parrying, there is no problem because you will be granted invincibility time, but if the attack comes at the timing when the parry fails, you will be hit before the pursuit can be activated and you will not be able to activate it. Since it is blocked before it is activated, the gauge will not be consumed, but you may lose the opportunity, so be careful. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/10/02 Increased power (900 → 1000) Increased PP recovery amount (+20 → +50) ▲ ▼ Wondo Parry Counter When an attack is successfully nullified by a weapon action, a counter will be generated by performing a normal attack. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - Wondo Parry If you input a normal attack after a successful attack, it will perform a counter that approaches the lock-on at high speed. The input delay is quite long. You can aim at a rapidly moving opponent by pausing a beat. If you acquire the following "Wondo Parry Counter Advance", it will become a powerful attack. During the motion from the successful parry to the activation of the counter, he is basically invincible. However, be careful as the invincibility time of the counter itself is very short. If you parry an attack that doesn't have a hitstop, a moment of non-invincibility will occur. This is because the invincibility time runs out while the parry is successful -> stiffness until the end of the parry -> counter activation. (If the attack has a hit stop, the invincibility time when the parry is successful is extended by the hit stop and is maintained until the counter is activated.) Attacks such as Dark Falz's Sword of Light and Raidal Sword's Super Freezing Beam fall into this category. ▼ Related adjustments and modification history 2024/10/02 Upwardly revised power (380/385 → 400/405) Upwardly revised movement speed and movement distance Adjusted to avoid getting too close to the enemy when attacking 2022/10/05 Upwardly revised movement distance Extended guard reception time Changed specifications so that invincibility time occurs when guard is successful 2021/12/15 Relaxes the hit stop time when a Just Guard is successful. The specifications will be changed so that you can block enemy attacks even during the invincibility period after a successful Just Guard. ▲ ▼ Wondo Pally Counter Advance Wondo Pally Counter When activated, a shock wave is generated. *For Wondo only Image Lv. 1 - - Fires a shock wave (long range attack) approximately 3 to 4 times the power of a normal attack. It has high firepower, so if you want to get the "Wondo Parry Counter", you should definitely get this as well. To be precise, it has a structure that overwrites the behavior (parry counter (high-power blow) → parry counter advance (low-power blow + high-power shock wave)). The same relationship as Braver's Katana Guard Counter to Katana Guard Advance. The legal attack explosion with one parry does not change as it occurs twice: Wondo Guard Reflection and Wondo Parry Counter. The total power increases slightly, and the range increases by the amount of the shock wave, so there is no harm in learning it. ▼ Related adjustments and modification history 2024/10/02 Increased power, adjusted power distribution (50+350/355 → 30+400/405) Changed distribution of PP recovery (20 blows + 8 shock waves → 8 blows + 20 shock waves) Changed the location of legal attack explosion to the shock wave hit position The attack range of the shock wave has been expanded to make it easier to hit the enemy's weak points. ▲ ▼ Talis Bloom After PP Gain When Talis finishes deploying due to PA, PP will be recovered according to the number of times the technique is used during deployment. *Main class/Talis exclusive Image Lv. 1 PP recovery amount +4 Maximum PP recovery amount +60 Common skill for Force and Tector. To activate this skill, you must use the technique at least once while Talis is deployed. The end of deployment refers to four timings: ``20 seconds have passed since Talis was deployed by PA,'' ``Deployment is canceled by Talis Bloom Revoke,'' ``When Talis' deployment ends due to changing weapons,'' and ``Talis is redeployed using Talis PA.'' Switching weapons also includes changing weapons with multi-weapons. If activated by reusing Talis PA, the PP consumed by the used PA will be recovered. This PP recovery is not included in the maximum PP recovery amount limit. This effectively cancels out the PP consumption of the PA itself. Example: If you follow the flow of ``use a technique 15 times or more while Talis is deployed (recovery amount 60) → activate the skill by using Perforate Shot (PP 15 consumption)'', in addition to the maximum recovery amount of 60, 15 of the PP consumed by Perforate Shot will be added, resulting in 75 recovery. After all, it is "returned after PP is activated", and the PP consumption of the PA used does not become 0. If there is no PP left for activation, PA itself cannot be used until it is recovered, and skills cannot be used in this way. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2022/08/03 Fixed a bug where Force and Tector's class skill "Talis Bloom After PP Gain" did not activate its effect immediately when Talis' deployment ended due to weapon swapping. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor [Active Skill] Performs a special long-range attack by consuming the accumulated gauge by attacking. Image for Talis only Lv. 1 Power 750 A common skill between Force and Tector. A 5-shot guided bullet that consumes a special gauge and fires. Can be set to subpalettes and weapon palettes. Power distribution is 150 x 5 hits, PP recovery amount is 18 x 5 hits, and invincible during the motion. When used on the ground, the character's altitude increases slightly. (Less than 1m?) The altitude increase when used in the air has been eliminated by the adjustment in December 2024. When you obtain the Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish, its behavior changes depending on the deployment state of Taris. The gauge can be accumulated by attacks using Talis (normal attacks, step attacks, step counters, weapon actions, PA, conversion techniques during PA deployment), techniques with Talis equipped, and non-Talis attacks by multi-weapons including Talis. Also, even if attacks are made by Talis, dive attacks and dash attacks are not subject to accumulation. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2024/12/04 Changed the specifications so that the altitude does not increase when attacking in the air 2023/08/02 Adjusted the power upward (700 → 750) 2022/04/06 Adjusted to make it easier to hit Changed the specifications so that it can move when activated Edit items common to this class ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor Gauge Amplification Implemented June 8, 2022 When attacking an enemy with a weak attribute technique while deploying Talis with PA, the amount of gauge accumulated in the tricky capacitor will increase. *Main class/Talis exclusive Image Lv. 1 Gauge accumulation rate 250% Common skill of Force and Tector. With the addition of this skill, Tricky Capacitor is now in practical use even in boss battles where gauge accumulation was slow. Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish, which was implemented later, greatly increased the gauge accumulation speed even during bursts. The importance of firepower has increased. Depending on the spread of the enemy's attributes, Tricky Capacitor can be used every 3 to 5 times with Spread Feather. Before Bloom Flourish was added, it was a single-target attack, so it was more useful as a way to replenish PP. Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Tricky Capacitor Bloom Flourish Implemented on June 7, 2023 During the deployment of Talis by PA, Tricky Capacitor's attack changes depending on the deployment state. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. No deployment: Up to 5 hits on enemies in front as before (power 150 x 5 hits) Perforate shoot: Coordinate attack (power 150 x 5 hits. If there are other enemies nearby, you can involve them) Spread feather (forward deployment): Penetrating attack in a fan shape (1 hit on each enemy within range in front. Power 750) Spread Feather (surrounding deployment): Penetrating attack in the surrounding area (1 hit on each enemy within the surrounding area. Power is 750) The amount of PP recovered is the same in all variations, 18 per hit. The perforated version maintains the same number of hits, but increases the certainty of PP recovery by using coordinate attacks. (18x5 = 90 recovery) The two types of spread versions are 1-hit wide-range penetrating bullets, so if you can only hit 4 or fewer enemies, the amount of PP recovered will be lower than the non-deployment version. ▼ Adjustment/Modification History 2023/08/02 Increased power (140 x 5 → 150 x 5) Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Float Torchka Multi-Lock Attacks multiple enemies intermittently for a certain period of time by not inputting a direction when a weapon action is activated. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. If a weapon action is used without movement input, the behavior will change for many versus many. The power and PP recovery amount per target will be reduced, but it will target up to 5 targets. One shot is fired per enemy. Three tallis are placed in a circle above the head. Regardless of the aiming status, it will fly to the enemy closest to the placed Taris. Unlike the regular version, firing will stop when there are no enemies or lock targets nearby. Slightly less powerful than the regular version. The power of the multi-lock version is 8.1. The regular version has a power of 9. The power is halved while using a different weapon type in a multi-weapon. It has a slightly shorter range than the regular version. The multi-lock version has a range of approximately 11 steps. (It takes about 10 steps to get from the initial position of the ARCS Training Center to the enemy's position) The regular version can reach the lock-on limit distance (14 steps), and can reach even further if you aim from an over-the-shoulder perspective. The amount of PP collected is ``normally 2, multi-lock 1×5 HIT''. While using a different weapon type with multi-weapon, the recovery PP amount is ``normally 1.5, 0.5 x 5 HIT when multi-locked” ▼ Adjustment/correction history 2024/12/04 Upwardly revised power (3→8.1) Increased maximum number of targets (3→5) Shortened attack interval (1 second → 0.75 seconds) Increased maximum number of shots (18→24) Upwardly revised Talis sign marking marker accumulation amount 2022/04/06 Extended range Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Tallis Sign Marking By hitting an enemy multiple times with Tallis' technique developed by a normal attack, weapon action, or the second hit of Spread Feather, the enemy becomes marked. Marked enemies will receive increased damage from techniques while Talis is deployed. *Talis exclusive image Lv. 1 Power 110% A common skill between Force and Tector. The actions that accumulate marking counts are as follows. Taris normal attack Taris weapon action (only when Taris is equipped) Step attack and step counter by Taris Taris PA/Spread Feather Derivative techniques (when fully deployed) ▼ Adjustment/Revision history 2024/12/04 Upward adjustment of power (105% → 110%) Edit items common to this class ▲ ▼ Taris Bloom Revoke By long-pressing the weapon action button, you can cancel Talis' deployment state due to PA. Taris exclusive image Lv. 1 - - A common skill between Force and Tector. After deploying Talis with a weapon action, if you press and hold for about 0.5 seconds or more, the Talis deployment state due to PA will be canceled. When you want to detonate stamps and emblems such as bartablot, you can use charge techniques at the right time by using this skill. It is also useful when you want to hit a target in the sky with a coordinate system attack method (such as charge foie). It can also be canceled by switching to a different weapon (e.g. Primtaris → Zviataris) or switching to a different weapon type (e.g. normal attack, PA, weapon action, etc. of a different type of weapon multi-weaponed with Talis). You can save skill points by using these. However, it cannot be canceled by switching between weapons with the same name (e.g. Primtaris +1 → Primtaris +2). Edit common items for this class ▲ ▼ Restafield Te The amount of recovery when using Restasign increases, and surrounding characters will also recover. *Main class only Image Lv. 1 Recovery power increase rate 140% Restasign's HP recovery rate increases from 50% to 70% of maximum HP. (50% x 1.40 = 70%) [Gatsuri] Quick Food's HP recovery amount + effect is further multiplied, resulting in a recovery rate of 77% to 105%. 9 pieces will be 101.5%, so let's adjust it accordingly. It is even more capable of supporting surrounding players than the Force version. It is also useful as a simple means of self-healing, so along with Shifter Devand, it greatly increases Tector's durability. Like Shifter/Deband, the range field remains for about 5 seconds after using Restasign. You can now use Resta Sign even if your HP is full. If the main purpose is self-healing, you need to be careful about this point. If you hit repeatedly, you may end up wasting your money unnecessarily. With the addition of EX special abilities, there have been cases where healing others becomes a hindrance to activating the effect, but there is no need to take this into account unless you are a fixed member and are doing a time attack together. If it becomes a stray, the quality of the companion will be far greater, so it is safe to say that it will have no effect on quest completion efficiency. If you are concerned about this, it would be a good idea to avoid shooting Resta when attacking, such as when an enemy is down. ▲ ▼ Tector Extra Field Implemented on October 2, 2024 Adds a supplementary effect to yourself and surrounding characters during specific actions. When Wondo Element Pursuit is activated, the Photon Blast Gauge increases. Also, when Photon Blast is activated, an additional attack will occur if the attack hits for a certain period of time. *Main class/Tector weapon only Image Lv. 1 PB gauge increase 2% Duration of additional effect 45 seconds Number of times additional attack effect lasts 10 Maximum number of times additional attack lasts 100 A new support skill for Tector with various combined effects. When activating Wand Elemental Pursuit, a purple support field aura appears around the character, and when activating Photon Blast, a gold support field aura is generated around the character, each with a separate effect. The specifications of this field are the same as Shifta Deband, and when another character comes within range during the duration of the field, a support effect will be generated for that character. When Wondo Element Pursuit is activated (purple support field) Increases the photon blast gauge of characters within range, including yourself, by 2%. The amount of increase is fixed at 2%. Simply, each time you use Pursuit, you and all allies within the effect area's PB gauge accumulates. When photon blast is activated (golden support field) Only applies when PB of techter weapons (wondo, taris) is activated. Gives a buff effect to characters within range, including yourself, that automatically triggers a follow-up attack when an attack hits. The pursuit effect lasts for 45 seconds, and grants 10 pursuit bullets with a power of 70 and a recast for 1 second (60f) after activation. Pursuit only consumes one shot per hit, and even if multiple targets are involved, it will only occur on one of them. When investigating the amount of DPS increase of a certain attack with a follow-up attack, it is necessary to consider the total number of frames of the attack used, the number of hits, and the interval between hits, but there is no problem in considering the effect itself as simply distributing a buff that causes a DPS 70 attack to occur separately. 10 shots are given with one activation, but it can accumulate up to 100 shots by activating PB multiple times while the effect lasts, or by being stacked by multiple techers. (However, due to duration constraints, even if 100 rounds are stocked, it will not be possible to fully consume them. This is just a system redundancy.) These effects mean that a certain amount of consideration has been taken into account for the disadvantages of having multiple techtors on the same battlefield. The support field occurs when both actions are activated, so the attack target is not required. In order to utilize this new buff effect, Techter's key class was how to efficiently convert the enemy's HP into Wand Element Pursuit, redistribute it as a photon blast gauge, and continue to inflict pursuit bullets. Rapid Smash customization: Type 3 can greatly increase the amount of gauge collected by Pursuit, so it is effective when aiming to increase the number of rotations. In addition, it is important to configure equipment such as potential abilities and preset abilities that are conscious of photon blast accumulation, but if you neglect your own fighting power, you are putting the cart before the horse, so do it in moderation. ▲ ▼ During slow landing charge Te PA and technique charge, the falling speed becomes slower. *Exclusively for Techter Weapons Image Lv. 1 - - Improves comfort by allowing you to survive some attacks while charging PA/techniques, and by making it harder for attacks to get caught in the undulations of the terrain after charging. However, if you want to gain firepower by using One More Jump while charging a PA/technique, you can increase the number of times you can stomp by not acquiring it. Especially when customizing Rapid Smash: Type 3, you should keep this in mind. With the class balance adjustment on October 2, 2024, Wand Technique Skip Beat can now be activated even with non-charged techniques, and with the introduction of the new skill Wand Quick Element Change that allows attributes to be added with non-charged techniques, the frequency of using charges has drastically decreased, so the priority has been lowered than before. ▲ ▼ Class skills scheduled to be implemented in the future *Currently, there are no class skills scheduled to be added. ▲ ▼ Tector's subclass In order to fully utilize the Tector's unique support ability, it is essential to fight with a wand, so from the perspective of content digestion efficiency, the criterion for selecting a subclass is ``how it contributes to wand operation.'' ▼ TeHu TeHu Useful Skills Flash Guard, Massive Hunter, Massive Hunter Extra Shield Features of Combination Durable configuration that can greatly enhance survivability with Massive Hunter and Flash Guard. Suitable for people who want to improve the stability of their fighting moves. Compared to Sub-Br and Sub-Wa, which are also designed for durability, it is characterized by the ability to permanently reduce damage taken. It is possible to further increase durability with Massive Hunter and Massive Hunter Extra Shield. ▼ TeFi TeFi Useful Skill Defeat Advantage Defeat PP Recovery Combination Features In all situations where you attack a downed opponent, you can receive up to 5% damage and a bonus of 1.4 times the amount of PP recovery when attacking. It is effective only in battles with boss enemies, but it almost never works in battles where the main objective is to annihilate small fry. ▼ TeRa TeRa Useful Skill Obscure Form Combination Features Makes it difficult to take hate. When using a wand, you want to actively aim for a counter attack, but even though it has been strengthened, the techer's firepower is still not enough to put aside other professional weapons, so it is more effective to be able to attack with full power without being targeted than to half-heartedly take hate. ▼ TeGu TeGu Useful Skills Attack PP Recovery Overwelm Combination Features A sub that specializes in PP recovery during attacks. Always 1.3x, When attacking enemies other than boss enemies, you will receive a 1.625x recovery amount correction. Since Wondo usually incorporates 3-4 into battle, the benefit of increasing the amount of PP recovery from normal attacks is large. However, in the current environment, Tector basically does not have to worry about taking care of PP in situations where there is an opponent to punch, so in order to take advantage of his characteristics, it is necessary to change the way he plays by actively increasing the ratio of PP consumption behavior compared to other subs. ▼ TeFo TeFo PP Convert PP Convert Increase PP Recovery Up Killing PP Gain Technique Charge PP Well Up U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo Foie Brand Vertablot Sondeclad Zangale Granz Ritter Megidosphere Combination Features A subclass that demonstrates the best performance in terms of PP operation. Additionally, since the effects of U Technique Gauge Amplify Te and U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo are activated at the same time, the rotation rate of the combined technique increases significantly. As a result of the upward revision of Techter and Wondo, there has been a considerable amount of leeway in the PP situation, and as a result, the absolute advantage in terms of PP is no longer what it used to be. However, due to the game design of NGS, the more PP there is, the less chance of attack is lost, so it is still the most powerful sub. With the upward revision of compound techniques, the value of compound technique specialized configurations has increased relatively, and it has the unique advantage of rotation speed, but while compound techniques have excellent power, they also have the disadvantage of not accumulating the Wand Element Pursuit gauge. They have to compensate for the lack of skills that directly increase the damage they deal, and they have to make the best choice for each situation, whether to take gauge accumulation or instantaneous damage, and they also have to act based on their ``reading'' of the subsequent situation, so in terms of making the most of their characteristics, the difficulty of operation has skyrocketed compared to before. ▼ TeBr TeBr Useful Skills Resta Effect Amplify Break Fall HP Gain Combination Features By strengthening Resta Sign, you can increase the amount of Resta Sign that recovers to yourself, while using Break Fall HP Gain to reduce damage when hit and save Resta Sign. RestaSine PP Gain can be used as a "means to recover PP at any time." However, Tector is a class that rarely has trouble with PP, and there is already a method called over emphasis in terms of "rapid recovery of PP", so it is a good idea to come with it as a bonus for sub-BR. ▼ TeBo TeBo Useful Skills Defeat Amplify Partial Destroy Advantage Foie Brand Vertablot Zondeklad Zangale Glanzritter Megidosphere A sub that is suitable for assisting in accumulating attribute down, and can also supplement the various technique class skills of Tector who lacks SP. Partial Destroy Advantage works well for bosses whose parts are easy to destroy. In highly difficult large boss battles where many parts are destroyed, this is the most useful combination for increasing both firepower and durability. ▼ TeWa TeWa Useful Skills Lucky Sign Old Friends Rescue Resta Effect Continuance A sub that increases recovery support performance and defense performance. Resta Effect Continuance is not a skill that only has merit, so we recommend checking the specifications carefully before learning it. This skill only affects himself, and is more of a preventative measure in situations where the techer is unharmed or lightly injured and gets hit immediately after using Resta Sign to heal an ally, and additionally consumes Resta Sign. Old Friends Rescue's durability enhancement effect is quite significant, and as long as it does not die instantly, it is a very reliable subclass that can reduce the number of bullets it takes to almost zero within a certain period of time. Lucky Sign alone is unsatisfying, but by using it in conjunction with the EX special ability "Fortune Sign", you can significantly increase the probability of not consuming a sign when using Resta. ▼ TeSl TeSl Useful Skills Critical Up Gallant Attack Critical Up Critical Hit PP Gain An attractive sub whose general firepower skill is increased critical rate. It has an effect of increasing the expected damage value by about 0.6% at all times and by about 1.1% against bosses. (Related add-on skill level 20) Although it is only a probability, so there may be some fluctuations, but since it doesn't matter what attack method you use, it will always work regardless of what you attack with in your hand. On the other hand, there are no other elements that have any particular synergy, so it's a simple structure that isn't difficult but doesn't do anything particularly different. ▲ ▼ Tector's EX Style ▼ Adrus Adrus The outstanding PB rotation efficiency makes it easy to follow up Adras' weaknesses, so it is relatively compatible with the class itself, and is especially compatible with the striking style using wands. The arbitrary activation of a counter attack by Perfection is eye-catching, but this is actually a secondary feature, and the main point is that the main character can actively activate EX special abilities and skill ring effects that require Just Gart. Since the output can be increased 4 seconds after the start of the quest without waiting for the enemy to attack, it is popular for general quests involving single opponents, including emergencies, and for TA purposes. You can build up the Pursuit Gauge in a short time, but if the Perfection Gauge is built up when you activate the Pursuit, it will be consumed, so you must activate the counter from Perfection first to avoid wasting it. There is little point in saving Adra Perfection in terms of wand operation, and once the gauge is filled, even if it doesn't hit the opponent, it will fire immediately, so it won't be a problem, so the burden on thinking resources is very light. In addition to ``When PB can be activated, use it after firing after blast'' and ``Use it before shooting Pursuit as it wastes the gauge'', just keep in mind that ``if possible, when the counter attack part hits'' as a goal of your efforts. ▼ Blitz Blitz He is good at hitting three PAs in a row, but he is not that good at getting hits. Thanks to the Hogeki Explosion, it's faster than it looks, but when it comes to a single enemy, it's still slow to get a lot of hits. ▼ Celeste Celeste A compatible EX style that can be used in a similar way to Force. The skills that support Celeste Reiteration are the same as Force, 3 types of compound techniques and Tricky Capacitor. Although it does not rely on complex techniques as much as Force, it is still a powerful technique. Attacks compatible with Celeste Flores include all techniques including when Talis is deployed, the above active skills, and Rapid Smash. In normal times, the ideal flow is to block the attack with Technique Rapid Smash, then connect it with 3 to 4 stages or Skip Beat + 4 stages to quickly fill up the Pursuit Gauge. Although it is a combination of physical and attribute type, the total amount of down value is quite large, and it can easily handle blast echo and trigger attacks. ▲ ▼ Tector as a subclass The performance of the subclass is low except against the main force, and there is little merit in adopting it for other classes. This is because the skills of each support class, which is the Tector's main role, are exclusive to the main class, and the skills that function as a sub (increasing the increase in photon blast gauge) have a much weaker effect compared to other classes, and the performance of the unique weapon type (wondo) when used as a subclass is not as good as that of other class-specific weapon types. One of the benefits of being a subtector is that techniques can be used even in non-legal shooting positions. However, this is not unique to the Subtector, and comes with the various benefits of the Sub Force and Sub Bouncer, so there is no point in choosing the Subtector just for this purpose. Although it is a limited situation, there is room for consideration in situations such as short-term battle quests with only a single boss, where ``with other subclasses, the photon blast gauge will not fill up completely, or even if it does, the opponent's HP will be low'' and ``you can achieve the quest progression requirements faster by firing a single photon blast, rather than using the increase in expected damage obtained by subclasses other than Tector.'' If you set it as a subclass of Main Force, you will get benefits other than increasing the photon blast gauge. Tallis and attribute-related skills are shared, so if you take them in a class with extra skill points, you can transfer the points to the other class. Even if the same skills that exist between the main and sub classes are acquired overlappingly by both, the effect will not increase and the overlapping will simply be wasted, so when combining classes with common skills, you will ultimately have to think about ``which skill tree should you acquire that skill from?'' when building skills. ``U Technique Gauge Amplify Te'' and ``U Technique Gauge Amplify Fo'' are treated as separate skills, and their effects can be used together, resulting in the great benefit of increasing the turnover rate of composite attribute techniques. ▲ ▼ Comments Displaying the latest 20 comments. See comment page Hide image It seems that the follow-up attack when PB of Extra Field is activated is effective even while onboard MARS -- 2024-10-03 (Thursday) 22:25:04 Te/Fo has an overwhelming lack of sub-parades, but what do you put in it? It's too painful to have 3 slots for composite gauge management -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 16:18:47 I have a lot of PP, so I turn off the conversion except in situations where only Noncharapisma T2 fires rapidly -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 21:00:19 The disadvantage of converting is that you will receive more damage -- 2024-10-05 (Sat) 03:52:40 I turned off the conversion and put the capacitor and Shifudeva in the weapon palette. -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 02:51:37 If you start using nonchatek, and it's a boss with a weakness to ice, you'll need a Vertaplot. -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 17:09:11 If you have time to blow up the plot, why not save up the Pursuit? -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 20:58:37 When adjusting Fo, I would like you to improve not only the technique but also the attribute skills in general. Although the overall handling has been changed in the tech itself and customization, the skills themselves have remained the same since implementation -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 22:45:39 First of all, I would like them to do something about the lack of SP -- 2024-10-04 (Fri) 23:01:17 It depends on the equipment, but since the PB gauge accumulation is a bit excessive, is it possible to reduce PB-related skills and get attribute skills? -- 2024-10-05 (Sat) 04:07:39 In beta, it was included in the tech's performance, and in effect it's only there to make Fo disadvantageous when choosing SP or sub. For use in Te, I think it's enough to just use Ice, Thunder, and Darkness, or worse, you can cut them all -- 2024-10-05 (Sat) 04:10:16 Branch 3 Anyway, sub Fo or Bo is stable, so it hasn't changed much, so wouldn't it be better to use that for the attribute system? When it comes to DF and turn-based bosses, I often don't have time to recast, so I want a certain amount of PB type -- 2024-10-05 (Sat) 05:51:05 Sub-FO is stable, and for bosses it feels like Bo, Ra, or Wa.I feel like sub-Hu has been completely eaten up by sub-Wa, but it might be a little stronger in places like the current Steer new map. All the enemy's attacks hurt -- 2024-10-05 (Sat) 23:23:53 Now that I can switch to non-chat, I decided not to use tech anymore and went with sub-Sl or Wa -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 00:36:02 If I have time to shoot multiple shots, I wonder if I should do a pursuit now? If you have time to explode after shooting a compound, you can definitely hit it, but I wonder if the compound itself is also a problem -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 03:07:43 Regarding compound, I think it is no longer necessary to forcefully use up the gauge until the technique is adjusted. Zandi, who can travel long distances, Fomel, who has super wide range of firepower, and Baran, who can use a station + ice plot, each have their uses, of course. It is also great for a support class that it has both down efficiency and firepower. -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 03:49:04 Composite was originally a strong standalone technique, and the feel of it hasn't changed. If you find yourself unable to hit Fo or Te for more than 2 seconds, just use a combination attack. -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 07:23:19 Since the noncha reinforcement custom is in Ice Thunder Darkness while the attribute skill is active, even if it doesn't explode, is it better to save it to increase the firepower after UT? -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 12:40:34 That noncha itself is weak and difficult to use, and it's stronger if you just detonate it, so it's a trap. -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 14:07:01 The pursuit in the EX Field PB version is a coordinate pursuit that flies from the sky to the locked place, so it feels like it's also a countermeasure against enhanced enemies. Unless it's an enemy that hides under your feet (e.g. Dots), it will almost certainly cut it down. It seems to be a relief measure when you are with a child who ignores the enhancer and plays aggressively -- 2024-10-06 (Sun) 01:16:12 With the shortening of skip beats and relaxation of cancel timing, it has become easier to activate guard points and parries, which used to be moderately strong, but now it is the highest level of stiffness among all classes? Current Techter -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 09:32:21 His original HP is low, and if he is careless, he tends to get hit in between, It feels like it's far from the hardest Hu, but I think the actual hardness is quite high among melee models -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 13:04:19 I'd say it's tough, but until now I was nervous because I couldn't reach the difficult parts like not being able to cancel or charging one by one, but now there's no chance.It's not that it's roughly tough like Hu or Wa, but you have to carefully assess and counter it on the same level as other counter classes, so I don't think it's tough -- 2024-10-07 (Monday) 15:25:13 Hu > Wa > Te (deband) = Br (counter performance) = Fi (endurance) -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 01:20:17 Wondo suddenly became stronger, at least stronger than Katana -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 20:15:04 There has been an adjustment announcement for several months, so it doesn't seem like it's a sudden change -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 21:07:29 It's probably about the increase amount, not the time series. -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 23:38:12 If that's the case, then the usage of suddenly is wrong... -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 05:15:27 I guess it means all at once -- 2024-10-12 (Sat) 23:38:19 Are you the one who instigated the conflict who also posted on the gunner board? -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 22:13:28 The power and rotation rate of Purst have increased, so I wonder if it's possible to use Wikus at all -- 2024-10-07 (Mon) 22:48:08 If you're facing an enemy that attacks frequently, like Separate Body of Abyssal Dallion, you'll have a counter festival and you'll be able to activate Pursuit Pom-Pon, which will visibly increase the rotation rate of PB. Isn't it strong that Pursuit doesn't have a recast? That's what I think these days -- 2024-10-08 (Tue) 01:03:30 If you're against a school of small fish, it's not as much as Perfo, but it accumulates quickly. -- 2024-10-08 (Tue) 07:45:16 During burst, you can accumulate it just by using one wave in the center, so using Pursuit super repeatedly will give you super annihilation power and the surrounding area will get a certain PB gauge MAX after the burst ends. -- 2024-10-08 (Tue) 08:13:08 Previously, 1.5 to 2 waves were required for each burst burst, but since the range expansion has increased the number of waves involved, it can now be accumulated in one wave. -- 2024-10-08 (Tue) 11:59:34 I need to check this when I get to the red world, but it seems like the issue has come up as to whether Lapisma T2 consecutive hits or Wave Pass Suit Loop has a better rotation rate when bursting at high ranks like that. (I heard it depends on the PC specs) Didn't you say that it's better to have as few players as possible at the center of the burst... So, keeping this in mind -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 11:00:24 I've heard that some things about the players closest to the center have an effect on the repop speed of the burst, and someone will definitely have an effect on it, so if you don't have any concerns about the PC specs or line for depiction, then you don't need to worry about it. That's also a matter of hunting Zakuzak with 1 accuracy, so if you're a high rank, it's a no-brainer. -- 2024-10-09 (Wednesday) 11:06:38 Since the number of HP will be adjusted when the enemy recognizes you, it seems like it's better to move away from the burst point and attack if you can guarantee the basic HP. If you're a high rank, it's probably impossible to get 1 basic HP, so I don't think you need to worry about it -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 11:40:31 I'd like to add some information about the burst issue. I feel like I'm going to fill in the rest -- 2024-10-09 (Wednesday) 13:31:19 Neusen Plant High Rank implementation... In the end, I couldn't figure out whether it was better to turn the pursuit the fastest or to repeatedly hit the wave, so the first day ended. I wonder which one is actually better -- 2024-10-17 (Thursday) 10:25:21 If you repeatedly hit the Pursuit accumulated by hitting waves repeatedly, you can do both (Famous General) -- 2024-10-18 (Friday) 00:13:19 For Neuzen, the live part is a margin of error, and it will be decided by how much you can activate the gimmick without loss -- 2024-10-18 (Friday) 00:19:09 I understood from the narrow range burst that is unique to high ranks, but if you can accumulate a pursuit with one Rapid T2 and use it endlessly, it's not enough firepower to be able to use it with 0 recharging. -- 2024-10-18 (Fri) 07:47:40 Oh no. While riding the Hobaku Pass Rush, I carelessly almost forgot the timing of Resta and Sifdeva...Especially the Despair boss fight in Steer -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 01:00:46 You can tell because the wand punch after the adjustment is too much fun... But we must never forget that we are a support job! -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 03:08:50 Turning the Pursuit and pasting it on the field is part of the support... -- 2024-10-13 (Sun) 09:40:10 It's easy to forget that Shifdeva's cooldown at the start of the quest has been shortened. Otherwise, when a boss goes down or when Lovers is activated, don't forget to use Shift Deva and you'll be able to cover it. Other than the permanent Dallion, I don't think Resta will be actively used for other purposes. -- 2024-10-09 (Wed) 12:41:48 I don't really understand because it's supposed to be normal for other classes to use the skill every time they empty it -- 2024-10-13 (Sun) 02:26:16 I think I'll forget if I think about pressing it when there are people nearby -- 2024-10-13 (Sun) 03:46:01 Does long range shifter debanding work? Maybe Omakan -- 2024-10-25 (Fri) 19:32:55 It can be used normally here. I can think of a pattern where I get it, but I'm using normal Shift Deva (long range is a different skill), or I'm using it properly, but when there's no target, it only activates slightly in front of me, so I don't notice the difference. -- 2024-10-25 (Fri) 20:03:04 Ah! I really didn't realize it was a different skill. Solved. thank you! ! -- 2024-10-25 (Fri) 20:09:12 I've been thinking about Te's EXop composition forever, but I think Trishield, Fortune Sign, and Toughmind are the strongest. Tri-Shield is very compatible with class skills, and thanks to Fortune Sign, I can even assist with recovery, so I think I finally started to feel like a support job. Toughmind is an insurance policy, but Arks who can afford it may be able to replace it with something like Lively > Stealth. -- Weapon Craftsman Techter? 2024-11-03 (Sun) 04:43:22 I think there are various combinations depending on the situation, but I completely understand the desire to include the Fortune Sign. Also, I think it would have been more successful if the sign shielding had been effective for other people -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 05:58:01 It's just a clumsy or sloppy composition. It sounds like you can't do it without it, but without it, there would be no quest that would run out of signs, and the activation rate is trash to begin with. As for defense, just trying is too much, but instead of adding Tough Mind, just adding Heavy Attack or Risky Patient will keep you from dying no matter how many times you get hit. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 06:00:37 If you use Fortune Sign alone, it's like that, but if you make it a sub-Wa, the activation rate increases considerably and you can easily spread Resta. It makes support play fun, so it's quite useful in such situations. However, it might be better to use some kind of firepower for Tough Mind since you have one slot like that. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 09:39:10 I have no problem using that structure, but I don't think it's the best structure for a page that talks about classes. Even though I say it's compatible with try, it just means that as long as you have a shield, you'll get a reflection even if you miss a guard. If you want to make use of Fortune, she's a sub-Wa, so her options for subs are limited, and the fact that she keeps using Resta to heal others makes her play like a joke. Thanks to Deband, Te's actual durability is faster if you count from the top, and the main wave has many guard points, and its cancellation has been eased, making it harder to get hit, so Tough Mind is still just insurance for those who die. At least for me, in order to be able to use high-power PB as much as possible, I would configure it with Risky, PB Boost, and something else -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 09:59:27 It would have been nice if I liked this configuration or had fun, but if I simply call it "the strongest", I'm sure there will be objections from people who value firepower -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 10:08:14 For me, I would choose 3 types: Torashi, Lively, Stealth, and Gravure. If you want to use Talismarpon, there are situations where you want a PP type. In the PB series, if you use Te, you won't be able to catch up with Rykya, but if you use Taiman Record, you might be able to do it. The signature is a story frame, No need for Tough -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 10:16:33 I personally like Tri Shield, but for Te Wondo, it's just a better match than a class/weapon type that doesn't have a skill that activates when guarding, and I don't think it's enough to push other EX away. To be honest, unless you're in a situation where you combine a high-density multi-hit attack with a parry or a 4th hit, or when a group approaches you and a single reflection causes a multiple attack explosion, it's pretty cool... -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 10:19:38 First of all, it's my fault that Kishu used the word "strongest", but there are some people who hate trying, but Trishield is of course a defensive EX, so it's firepower, firepower, firepower, firepower, firepower, firepower! ! ! ! ! It's true that it doesn't matter if you're a delinquent, but if that's not the case, then it's hard to understand why you can't include it in God's EX.Especially melee weapons. It's too convenient to let him get hit 3 times before the reflection is done. TeHP is low. Is it a small fry? It's a cliche's mindset to think that there's no need for such a thing because all enemy attacks are countered.Well, what EX is compatible with Te Wondo? That being said, try, lively, stealth, risky & endu PB (Te tends to overflow the PB gauge, so it depends), and if you're thinking about support, I'd say Fortune. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 10:35:49 Wondo is mostly SA or GP, debanded, and has high durability, so I don't have a problem without it. Try is fine, but if I can get a try, I'll definitely include Lively -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 10:45:16 I think try is actually an attack-type EX that gives you the opportunity to forcefully screw it 3 times.If you look at it as a follow-up EX, 3 shots is too few and the CT is too long, so the defensive performance is quite questionable -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 11:35:07 Impressions from someone who switched to Risky PB Try after playing Lively Fortune Stealth. 1. The former realized that Tector and Lively, who think about recovery support, are not compatible in the first place. It will no longer be a fuss about not having enough Resta. Also, Te Wondo is not suitable for firepower as it will often target you in a wild environment where you don't have strong allies. I switched to the latter because I felt it was incompatible with 2. It depends on the situation, but PB can be fired almost every time you re-kya, and Tri is the most compatible with melee weapon Wondo. Most of the wondos have SA, so it's not a problem at high difficulty levels. I'm not a super PS guy who never gets hit, so if I accidentally get hit somewhere, the loss will be reduced, so it shines in both offense and defense, which is super convenient. However, as mentioned above, the replay is long, so it may not be suitable for people who tend to get hit repeatedly from the beginning. His strength lies in his ability to ignore accidental bullets and keep hitting. If you don't feel the need to try, I think you can choose stealth or heavy pro. It's up to your personal preference here. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 11:53:52 Basic counter is the strongest game, so the only ones that increase firepower with it are Eraser and Hellish -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 11:55:08 There is no recovery motion, so if you have SA, there is no loss when you get hit. Lively is required to be used in combination with basic try. If you only include Lively without a try, it's only natural that you have super PS -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 11:58:52 I was talking about Dallion in the Lv90 environment, and Ross also sometimes dies from being hit repeatedly. It's a story on that level, and it's also a story where you won't be able to prepare enough Resta to maintain your own lively while someone else is recovering. Of course, you can clear the high difficulty level without getting hit, but I'm not talking about the level of how to get more firepower without wasting anything.If that's the case, it would be a matter of Hisburn -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 14:03:52 It's impossible to get hit without being hit, so I'm talking about trying to keep it lively. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 14:30:22 Huh? I'm not denying that. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 15:52:55 Then what made you think about the high-difficulty no-hits premise? -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 16:29:43 Unless you're in that category, try and tough are not bad. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 16:55:56 ``Te that doesn't die is good Te'' is an ironclad rule that hasn't changed since the Muji era. I don't think it's a bad idea to keep your defenses solid. That being said, I also have a rigid composition of paid tough try. Would it have been better to use Heavy instead of Payday? I don't have it on hand (bitter smile) -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 17:02:08 First of all, Te, which cannot be unhittable, should not recover only for others. Just go near others when it's time to heal yourself and heal yourself at the same time -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:01:58 It's common to all classes that it's better not to die, but if you don't go that far, you won't have "good Te" when you die -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:19:06 The story is based on the premise of being unhittable anytime, anywhere, like a special-class junkie -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:21:25 In a game where there are various PS users, I'm talking about what's better for people with low PS, it's better not to die than to die, and it's also good to strengthen your defenses, but when you strengthen your defenses, I don't want people who talk about pointless things like land mines to be on the Te page, which is a support job. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:24:40 I'm not saying it's a land mine, but if you get hit like that all the time, of course you don't have any firepower, and it just doesn't kill you, so even if you make a mistake, it's not a "good Te" -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:26:37 It's good, or rather it's the bare minimum, regardless of Te. It's too much of a story to say who is the strongest... -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 18:51:10 There's no doubt that it's good for being stable without dying. I'm just being criticized because I said I'm the strongest -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 19:53:27 I don't have a tough mind. It's perfect for layers that require reloading for too long. Patient Defense is also meaningless and can only be used in multiple stages unless it is set with Risky or Hisburn, so there is no point in attacking it. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 21:02:44 What is more of a tsukkomi than anything else is that this content is being posted multiple times with the same technique, not only on this page, but also on the EX special ability page and in the comment section of a certain blogger. -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 21:07:46 I thought it was an accidental explosion when I saw EXOP, but I wonder if they are doing it outside as well... -- 2024-11-04 (Mon) 01:41:43 Eh...I don't know if it's the person in question or someone else with a grudge, but that's amazing. But the owner of the tree probably hasn't posted anything since he posted it once. -- 2024-11-04 (Mon) 10:44:56 Please stop showing off your composition, which is not the strongest or anything, with a smug look -- 2024-11-03 (Sun) 20:53:58 I'm sorry that even though Wondo has become so strong, he still received a crappy reinforcement of composite tech. Hehehe. As an added bonus, Tallis' DPS has also increased by nearly 40, which is good -- 2024-12-06 (Fri) 07:52:40 It seems that Te has also reached the same level as Ra, right next to Fo who has become the strongest. Thanks to the increase in basic specs, the ability to support surroundings and self-support is finally starting to shine -- 2024-12-13 (Fri) 10:38:26 It's late, but the element change effect originally didn't match most weapon shapes, but Prim Wondo was the only one that matched, but when I used Prim camouflage for the first time in a while, the spherical effect didn't match at all, which made me laugh... I wonder what on earth they decided on to match this effect -- 2024-12-13 (Fri) 22:56:49 What else is there other than a simple indicator of "This attribute is now attached!"? Do you think Double Saber's Kamaitachi is designed to match some kind of weapon? Isn't that so? -- 2024-12-24 (Tue) 07:31:15 No, the effect is lame, so I don't think that's the problem. I think it's lame too, but the previous one was still better. Before, it wasn't that noticeable, so I could forgive it, but now it stands out unnecessarily. -- 2024-12-24 (Tue) 08:05:43 When the development side makes the premise that ``I'll use this position and this design for the indicator that this attribute is currently attached,'' they probably assume multiple weapons and select positions and designs that will fit in a circle (according to the creator's standards). I don't think Ogi's story makes sense, even if we leave out the ``uncool'' and ``uncool'' -- 2024-12-29 (Sun) 18:18:14 At the point where the owner of the tree feels that Prim is the only one, the premise of "assuming multiple weapons" doesn't hold true -- 2024-12-31 (Tue) 00:31:16 I think a short stick shape would work well with other shapes, but there are many other shapes as well, and it's hard to see when you're hitting them in the first place -- 2024-12-31 (Tue) 01:37:10 Branch 3 I think it's possible that the effect before the change was made to suit Prim in its early stages and didn't have anything else in mind. Did you intentionally make it not match everything after the change? That's what it feels like -- 2025-01-07 (Tue) 17:37:11 I want the effect to be safe and unobtrusive, so I can confirm it with the color or icon on the palette. -- 2025-01-07 (Tue) 17:54:42 I wonder if the effect should be on the right hand of the character holding the wand instead of the tip of the weapon... -- 2024-12-24 (Tue) 23:16:56 I feel like it's okay to hold it in Straga or Bronaga camouflage just for this -- 2024-12-31 (Tue) 02:24:04 Sometimes I don't know if it has attributes, so it would be helpful if there was an icon display if possible. -- 2025-04-18 (Friday) 11:30:21 I had the impression that a "support job" was something like, "The person is frail...or rather, gentle, and supports the surrounding allies from the middle to the rear guard as appropriate," but this game's situation is quite different. Gori r who uses only blunt weapons and gets excited by splashing blood with the vanguard...like a brave warrior... Maybe my image is outdated...? -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 13:01:17 NGS is a DPS attacker for all classes. It's just that Te (and Ra) can provide support -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 13:09:33 Well, in FF14, when you get down to it, everyone is an attacker. When you're looking for cycle efficiency, you can attack tanks and healers if you have the time.I think there are few MMOs now where support jobs can use all of their status and MP for recovery and support, and their combat ability is completely eliminated, like in the past. -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 13:14:33 "Tank too"? Tanks have the same role as attackers, where they keep hitting all the time -- 2025-08-27 (Wed) 05:59:46 It got to the point where tanks could also produce DPS, so it was rough for a while -- 2025-08-27 (Wed) 09:01:22 It's an easy-to-understand style class where people can enjoy their brains and muscles by spreading Shifu Deva, jumping into the group, hitting them, doing lots of pursuits, and turning PBs.I feel like the people who use it don't even think of it as a support class, and there's little need for a recovery role in this game in the first place -- 2025-08-27 (Wednesday) 09:24:17 Well, it's still a support class that uses two types of Sifdeva, Resta, and Tector Field to bludgeon you to death with blunt weapons (trembling voice).Currently, its support ability has improved to the point where it's on par with Ra, so even now that melee classes are being powered up through adjustments, there's no change in the fact that they still want one, and they're still in a ridiculously delicious position. Class adhesion is now allowed only for Ra and Te -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 13:17:59 Has that really changed? In solo games where you team up with multiple characters, the support characters are relatively weak, but in multiplayer support jobs, they are usually able to fight fairly well. In the old days, support + grinding melee was a common job in tabletop RPGs (such as Paladin). -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 14:04:57 If you think about it, you'll often see monks who are martial artists who can recover, or melee clerics who can use a mace to assist in recovery (depending on the work, they have high HP and can even be used as a tank), and religious people who tend to be assigned supporting roles, but also have strong settings. -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 20:34:58 Warenikago -- 2025-08-25 (Mon) 17:21:19 It really feels like Ragnarok Online's punch-up. Te -- 2025-08-26 (Tue) 09:10:51 Speed-up skill madder? -- 2025-09-01 (Mon) 06:24:11 Please pick up 2 power capsules -- 2025-09-01 (Mon) 06:51:11 Speed ​​increase...Blessing...Kyrie Eleison...I'm pissed off -- 2025-09-01 (Mon) 19:20:04 As for whether it's old or not, it's half-baked. Even Dragon Quest is more durable than a magician and has been adjusted to be able to hit -- 2025-09-04 (Thursday) 13:03:41 Well, it's not like you can't do it with that style, but Tallis can also use long-range special weapons. However, since the days of Muji, brain muscle play like "Front line? Where I am is the front line" has played a role as a damage dealer, and in NGS, Talis has become easier to use with Fo, and the current situation is that many people don't use it unless under certain conditions (raises hand) -- 2025-09-05 (Fri) 16:19:44 Bringing out someone who is weak and can only use other buffs to the front line is usually the work of an outsider, and from a pure tactical standpoint, the burden on companions is too great.In famous high fantasy works, it is often the case that only prayer power is sent from a place like a sanctuary, which is somewhat common sense... -- 2025-09-05 (Fri) 19:25:36 While the support jobs are weak, long-distance jobs are a credit to Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy. For a long time, there have been support jobs in fantasy works and games that distribute buffs or recovery while hitting the opponent with blunt weapons or hand-to-hand combat -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 18:48:06 Rather than that, the classic example is Ragnarok Online, but in games where you can use stats, magicians and monks have to focus on INT or DEX (casting speed), so it's a big deal. -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 20:42:16 At the time of TRPG, it was a stage swing game, so it was the origin. Dragon Quest just creates occupations according to that -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 12:32:25 Even if it's a support, the effect of the support is often low or non-existent, so punching support was a common structure. -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 13:15:34 With the recent Alter battle bursts, do you think Element Pursuit is better? -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 14:49:02 What do you think? I wonder which is better: waving in the center and hitting repeatedly with Pursuto, or fixed point Lapisma Cutter -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 17:35:28 Te is only used at important points, and I'm sorry to say that this is a solo-only opinion, but after trying both for an hour, Lapisma was overwhelmingly more annihilating. In solo mode, I felt like the time between shooting a pursuit was a waste of time, and the range didn't hit as much as I said, and the controls were busy and simple and cumbersome.In PT mode, it might be different, but I feel like it's better to surround yourself with Lapisma and hit because it's PT mode. -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 20:12:34 In Alter West, the burst range is narrow, so hitting the ground and hitting the Pursuto repeatedly isn't bad, but it's hard to say that it's difficult to move both the wave and the Pursuto. It felt better to keep hitting Noncha Getsuga. Even if you raise the PB gauge by continuously deploying Extra Fields, in most classes, the gauge will accumulate before recasting in Alter West... If that's the case, why not choose based on annihilation power? That was my conclusion -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 10:00:27 I don't think there is a need to do it since Resta Sign is the only one who strengthens Perst. -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 18:58:41 I wasn't sure if Lapisma hit or not, so I used Tallis, but is Tallis already outdated? -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 20:06:47 Tallis is currently crap unless he gets major reinforcements -- 2025-09-06 (Sat) 20:40:04 Tallis PB is strong, so if it's fixed with a lot of FoTe, it might be strong if you put in Wondo Pursuit, field it, and turn Tallis PB -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 04:11:16 I thought so, but if it's in burst, can you fill up the gauge without doing any tricks? -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 04:16:20 Talis is really close to the strongest in PB...other than that... -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 12:14:11 That's why I use Talis only when accumulating PB. -- 2025-09-07 (Sun) 13:13:12 I understand that the effects of U Technique Gauge Amplify Te (Fo) overlap, but I'm a little confused by the fact that they each say "exclusively for techter (force) weapons"... It only overlaps with the shared weapon Talis...there's no reason for that, right? It's not specifically mentioned... -- 2025-09-28 (Sun) 10:50:30 It might be better to write that it's only for Tector and Force equippable weapons. In short, a weapon that can activate complex techniques -- 2025-09-28 (Sun) 17:06:25 There is an EX tree at the top, As expected, too much time has passed, so I'll make a new tree. I found something called Cri + Follow + Avoon and tried it on a wondo, but it's really strong. Wondo also works with Cri+Follow, and there are a lot of GPs, so before you know it, Avon is also at max...but is it recommended? If you ask me, I guess it depends on the person since they specialize in attack and abandon defense. I felt it would be better to mix defenses like crit + follow + defense ability, or trashi + follow + avon. Even without heavy, it's quite painful lol -- 2025-09-29 (Mon) 17:38:46 I'm not good at close-range combat or parrying, so I want to use Talis, but unless I use a wand, Te is a land mine. -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 02:04:46 Even Talis can use compound techniques, so it's not a problem at all. However, Te itself is a popular job, and if you think about it, Fo might be stronger -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 02:27:03 Since you are discarding one support slot, and using Fo will clearly attach a stronger weapon type, it is not as bad as calling it a landmine, but it certainly does not look nice.It seems like the main Gu is attached to a rifle -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 03:57:48 It would have been nice if Tricky Capacitor had been added to the activation condition for Tector Extra Field. It has become a weapon that no one uses except for a few Forces. -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 09:01:26 Once you reach the top, you will be left behind and will almost never be overlooked... Still, it has a unique strength, so if you choose how to use it, it will end up being excellent. -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 11:29:22 If you discard the wand, the only advantage is that you can use Sifdeva, and if it is not an essential level and you have Te, that advantage will be destroyed, so if you are not good at close combat, it is better to be quiet and use Fo with a rod or Talis. There is no advantage in using Te even if you give up your own firepower -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 08:57:44 Honestly, if you want to pull back, I think Ra is the only option. -- 2025-10-16 (Thursday) 22:59:00 If you don't think about tech counters, rod force is also okay. It won't change that much -- 2025-10-17 (Friday) 06:11:38 How about cutting off Talis skills and using points for other skills? I took the plunge and thought I would only use a wand, but no? Ali? -- 2025-12-14 (Sun) 22:18:17 Is it mainstream not to involve Talis as a counterattack? I think it's a good idea. That's what I did. You can reroll as much as you like these days, so why not try it? -- 2025-12-14 (Sun) 23:26:51 The performance of Talis, especially Te Talis, can only be described as garbage. All cuts are natural -- 2025-12-15 (Mon) 00:09:13 For some reason, a wave hit customization table was added to the Won Lovers section, so I deleted it -- 2026-06-07 (Sun) 08:46:54 Name: Cancel attachment Deletion key: Please refrain from making comments that violate public order and morals (incitement, slander, discriminatory expressions, obscene expressions, etc.). Also, line breaks are generally not recommended. Avoid unnecessary line breaks. For more information, see About the comment field. Please go to the Chat Bulletin Board for chats, the Complaint Bulletin Board for various complaints, the Consultation Bulletin Board for consultations about equipment, etc., and the official website for adjustment ideas and requests.

